CSC151 2010S, Class 01: An Introduction to the Course
=====================================================

* Hi, I'm Sam.  Your class Mentor is Lea.

http://www.cs.grinnell.edu/~rebelsky/Courses/CSC207/2013F
http://www.cs.grinnell.edu/~rebelsky/Courses/CSC207/2013F/eboards/01.md

_Overview_

* Admin.
* About the Course.
* ADTs and Data Structures.
* An Exercise: Designing a List ADT.

_Admin_

* Welcome to CSC 207.  I look forward to helping you learn.
* Since this is a new course, I had lots of work to do on the course web.  
  The web is incomplete.  Sorry.
* I don't believe in going over class policies on the first day.  Please
  read the course web and ask me questions via irc, email, or in the next
  class.
* MathLAN has a brand new desktop.  Blame Adam and Jordan.

About the Course
----------------

* Topics

    * Problem solving
    * Algorithms
    * Analysis - Understanding our solutions
    * Data Structures and Abstract Data Types
    * Software Design, particularly the object-oriented paradigm
    * Program
    * The Language Java, even though it's not our focus

* Learning techniques

    * Labs (Collaborative, constructivist learning situations)
  ADTs and Data Structures
    * AND MORE

* Skills

    * Teamwork
    * Um or Uh
    * AND MORE

* Outcomes
    * Generalize
    * AND MORE

* We'll be doing the topics in more depth

Algorithms

* Classic algorithms
* Formal analysis of running time and space usage
* Look at patterns of algorithm design
    * divide-and-conquer
    * greed
    * dynamic programming
* Write algorithms for problems
* Implement them in Java

Data Structures and ADTs

* Classics
* Analyze (typically in terms of the algorithms that use them)
  * You know about linked lists and arrays/vectors
* Design and implement DSs
* Generalize to ADTs (or start general)

Program Design

* Larger programs
* Using OOD principles
    * Encapsulation - Group things together that belong together and protect
      them from the outside world
    * Inheritance - Aristotle was right.  Things are hierarchial.  Easy ways
      to build new code from old by extending it.
    * Polymorphism 

Course Themes
-------------

* Android development
* Computing for Social Good
* Trying to limit impact on core topics
* Probably enhances other topics
* CSG: [Ushahidi](http://www.ushahidi.org)

Sam's Steps in ADT/DS Design
----------------------------

* ADT: Abstract, the _what_
* DS: Concrete, the _how_

Philosophy: What is the main driving approach?

* For a vector, "values indexed by sequential integers"

Problem Domains: How would we use that organization

* Registrar, Mailboxes, etc.

Procedures: What are the ways in which someone will use this ADT?

* Add or set a value at a particular index
  add(vector,index,thing)
  set(vector,index,thing)
* Remove a value at a particular index
  shifting everything that follows that index?
  just leaving it empty?
* get(vector,index)
* containsValue(vector,index) or isEmpty(vector,index)
* Create a new vector
* Delete a vector

Data Structures

Decide on a layout of memory

Design strategy for implementing proceduresr

Implement

Analyze
