CSC207 2013F, Class 02: An Introduction to Java Development
===========================================================

_Overview_

* Admin.
* Clicker Questions.
* Tools for programmers.
* Lab: Eclipse.
* Lab: Git and Eclipse.

_Admin_ (way too much)

* Today is basically a "introduction to lab equipment" class.  You'll be
  configuring and playing with Eclipse and git.
* Reminder: Even if you're not a CS major (and not planning a CS major),
  you can be on the csstudents mailing list and you can participate in
  CS Table.  Email me to get added to the mailing list.
    * CS Table meets Fridays at noon in JRC 224A (the Day PDR)
* With over sixty surveys in between my two classes, I didn't have time 
  to respond to all of them yet.  (If I'm lucky, I can respond to a
  survey in 10 minutes.  Sometimes it's fifteen.  Do the math.)  Give me a 
  few days.
* I don't know if you care, but today's labs took me four hours to
  _revise_ (from what my students had written).  I may not be able to
  keep up that pace, which means that some classes will switch from lab
  to lecture and some readings will, well, just not exist.
* I should have homework 2 ready by Wednesday.
* Although the Git reading focused on command-line Git, the lab will
  focus on using Git with Eclipse.  
  (Just a heads up.)
* If you have time, please fill out the evaluation form for today's
  labs and reading, available at http://bit.ly/csc207-2013F-eval-git.
* There's another introductory survey I'd like you to fill out.  
  It's available at http://bit.ly/risc-pretest
  Please fill it out by Wednesday.
* A silly question: In what order would you like the "Current" links at
  the top of each page?
* Reminder: Sign up for the second-year science retreat (assuming that
  you're a second-year science student).
  * Talk to Prof. Davis or Prof. Gregg-Jolly if you didn't get info.
* Readings for tomorrow: An Introduction to OOD; An Introduction to Java.

_Clicker Questions_

* We're experimenting with the use of Clickers in CSC 151.  We will also
  use them in this class, although less frequently.
* Eclipse features ...
* IDE Feelings ...

* Comments
  * Easier than hands
  * Faster than Sam's patented "Round Robin Recitation"
  * Gets people talking

Tools for programmers
---------------------

* Programmers use programs that help them program.  Such as ...
    * Compiler - Translates code into executables
      & checks for syntax error
    * Editor - Let you write your code (in nonsequential fashion)
      * Lets you see and organize your code
      * Indent code according to some plan
      * Simple syntax checking, such as balanced braces/parens
      * Work with multiple files
      * Syntax highlighting
      * Quick navigation
    * (Language - A tool for expressing your algorithms, and a set of
      restrictions that help you think.)
    * Debugger
    * References (often accessible via a browser)
    * Make - automating build processes
    * Source code management system
* IDEs

Lab: Eclipse
------------

* Yes, it's okay if you work on your own computer.  Some instructions may be
  a bit different.
* Jordan says to use Gnome, even though it looks much different.

Lab: Git and Eclipse
---------------------

_We'll do the Git labs tomorrow._
