CSC207.01 2013F, Class 04: Git, Revisited
=========================================

_Overview_

* Admin.
* Quick discussion of approaches.
* Lab: Git on the Command Line
* Lab: Reading Java

_Admin_

* Yes, I know that it will take awhile to get used to this stuff (Eclipse,
  Git, Sam's teaching style, ...).  But it will be worthwhile in the end.
  (Well, maybe not getting used to my teaching style.)
* Note: Elevators require much more energy than you do.  Some people are
  injured and need the elevator.  Please use the stairs if you can.
* Please fill out the RISC Pretest if you have not done so already.
  http://bit.ly/risc-pretest
* Apologies again for the Git+Eclipse lab.  We'll use the approach that
  I normally use (command-line Git plus Eclipse).
* Reminder: EC for CS Table this Friday (Turing on AI)
* Assignment 2 is ready.  We'll spend a few minutes looking at it.  
  Note that it has a prologue and epilogue.
* Reading for Friday: Unit Testing (still needs some updates)
* Will we get extra credit for noticing typos in your writing and
  reporting them?  
    * It depends on how many you notice.

Quick discussion of approaches
------------------------------

* Git is a tool that supports collaboration.  Multiple people can work on the
  same file and access it and share their changes.  Git also keeps track of
  all the old versions of your code.
* Eclipse is an IDE for programming in Java- enter code, play with syntax,
  compile, run, debug, refactor, etc.
* Git and Eclipse can play together using EGit.
* They can also play together if you use command-line git
    * (and then you'll have easier access to various git tools)
* An alternative approach, using command-line Git
    * Use command-line git to commit, download, upload, compare, ...
    * Use Eclipse to edit code
    * Connecting the two: The New Project wizard lets you specify a directory, 
      so just use one created with command-line git

Things you should figure out how to do ...

* Collaborate using the same repository
* Undo changes
* Deal with conflicts

Lab: Git on the Command Line
----------------------------

* Today's potentially atypical comment: 
  "Yeah, I like command-line git much more."
* Note: The -m "_message_" flag for `git commit` may be easier than
  using an editor.

Lab: Reading Java
-----------------

* Some folks completed this lab.  Some didn't get to it at all.  Do it
  on your own.
