CSC207.01 2013F, Class 05: Unit Testing
=======================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries
    * Admin.
    * Homework questions.
* A few remaining notes on Git.
* A few notes on unit testing.
* An example: Testing exponentiation.
* A few notes on test-driven development.
* Lab!

_Admin_

* What should earnestw do about his gmail account?
    * Write a custom spam filter
* I made some changes to the CSS stylesheet for the class.  Let me know
  if you notice and whether the changes are an improvement or (whatever
  the opposite of improvement is).
* A friendly reminder that "Learning from Alumni" is a great opportunity
  to get real-world recommendations on how to prepare for a job or
  internship (and to network).  And you get 1 credit.  Thursdays, 2:15-4:05.
* Reading for Monday: Debugging
* I'm working on getting more of the assessment forms up.  Sorry for the
  delay.  (My primary goal is making sure that the readings and labs are
  up to snuff.)
* EC opportunities:
    * CS Table, today,!  Alan Turing on AI.
    * Humanties Center Speaker Sarah Hendron, Next Wednesday, 7:30 p.m., JRC101
      Waking the Machines: Art, Design, and Adaptive Technology
    * Learning from Alumni 2:15-4:05 next Thursday: Ian Lunderskov '08
    * Tentative Thursday Extra next week: Matt Atherton '95
* Mentoring is Wednesday nights at 8-9pm

_Questions on HW2_

* Does anyone need a partner for HW2?
* Are there questions on HW2?  I see only two of you have filled out
  the prologue, which suggests few people have looked at the homework.
* Question: Can I really write "isOdd" without using %, /, *
    * Yes, if you are willing to interpret the assignment in a certain way.
    * Yes, if you are willing to write ugly and inefficient code?

A few remaining notes on Git
----------------------------

* There are GUI's for command-line git
    * GitHub for Mac is really good (So says Sunny Shine)
* `git commit -m "*Message*"` provides a faster way to commit.

A few notes on unit testing
---------------------------

* One strategy for seeing if your code works:
  Call the procedure, print out the result
* Why that strategy is bad
    * You have to spend time comparing results - Computers are faster
    * You have to remember what result you expected (you probably have to
      document)
    * You won't want to do many tests
* What's the solution?  A test framework
    * You write the tests as code that specifies input and expected output
    * The computer does all the work
    * Rerunning the tests is easy
    * And you can write loops to generate lots of tests
* We'll call this strategy "unit testing" - 
* Designing good tests requires practice and thought
* And a testing framework
    * We'll use JUnit

An example: Testing exponentiation
----------------------------------

        /**
         * Compute x^n
         * @pre
         *   x^n < Integer.MAX_VALUE
         *   x^n > Integer.MIN_VALUE
         */
         int expt(int x, int n) 

* One test: 9 == expt(3,2)

        assertEquals("D's Test", 9, expt(3,2));

* Another test: 1 == expt(posint,0)

          for (int i = 0; i < 10000; i++) {
            assertEquals(i + "^0", 1, expt(i,0));
        } // for

* Negative tests

        assertEquals("Negative", 1, expt(-2,0));
        assertEquals("Negative", -2, expt(-2,1));
        assertEquals("Negative", 4, expt(-2,2));
        assertEquals("Negative", -8, expt(-2,3));

* A for loop to do a lot of tests

        for (int base = 2; base < 500; base++) {
             assertEquals(base + " squared", base*base, expt(base, 2));
             assertEquals(base + " cubed", base*base*base, expt(base, 3));
        } // for

* A for loop for a power of 1

* Detour: Java specifies that integers are 32 bits, excess 2^m-1 notation
  32 bits: If only positive, largest 2^32-1; if you allow negative, it's
  even smaller (maybe 2^31-1, if I remember the notation)

* Nest for loops: Different bases, different powers

        for (int power = 1; power < 6; power++) {
            assertEquals(3 + "^" + power, ...,expt (3, power)); 
        } // for

* Something complicated that lets us get back to the original number

A few notes on test-driven development
--------------------------------------

_Skipped_

Lab!
----

_Insufficient time.  Finish up on your own._

