CSC207.01 2013F, Class 07: Arrays in Java
=========================================

_Overview_

* Prelim
    * Admin.
    * About HW 3
    * About HW 2
* ADT Design
* Arrays

_Admin_

* A final reminder to register for the 2nd-year retreat.  It looks like
  a good opportunity to do lots of things - talk more about group work,
  learn from alums, think about choosing a major, etc.
    * Email [greggjol] to get the links
* It sounds like there was some demand that I focus on the syntax and
  semantics of imperative Java, so I've rearranged the syllabus (including
  today) to go over it.
     * Rearranging stuff put me even further behind!  Readings may not
       be ready in time, and class sessions will probably focus on
       lecture + discussion + recitation.
     * And my class outlines may not be as deep as they usually are.
* Reminder: Mentor session Wednesday night at 8pm
* Readings for Wednesday (expect them later today):
    * Strings in Java
    * Numbers in Java
* Homework 3 is ready!
* EC opportunities:
    * Humanities Center Speaker Sarah Hendron, Wednesday, 7:30 p.m., JRC101
      Waking the Machines: Art, Design, and Adaptive Technology
    * Learning from Alumni 2:15-4:05 Thursday: Ian Lunderskov '08
    * Tentative Thursday Extra: Matt Atherton '95
    * CS Table, Friday: Trusting Trust.
    * More?

About HW 3
----------

See the homework.  Lots of chances for extra credit.

About HW 2
----------

* Many 4-5 hours
* Lots of problems with Eclipse and Git(Hub)
    * Pull requests are a pain
        * So add an administrator (easier for you than for me)
    * Pulling changes was hard
    * Debugger is hard
        * Write experiments, rather than unit tests, when you want to debug
    * What's the workspace?
        * A default place to store stuff, including config (I believe)
        * I'd recommend ~/workspace
        * But your projects generally won't go in the workspace, maybe
          put those in ~/CSC207
* Getting the syntax right in parts C and D took a lot of time
* Why the average problem?
    * Think about extreme cases!
    * A real issue

Java Things to Discuss
----------------------

* Java is object oriented: We build and use objects
* Sometimes, we just want to be imperative and write methods - no objects
  really needed
    * Methods not associated with objects are called "static methods"
    * Until you build objects, everything should probably build static
* Related issue: Classes serve three basic purposes
    * Collections of static utility methods - "Utility class"
    * A repository for the main method - "Main class"
    * Templates for objects - "Template class"

ADT Design
----------

* Sam can't speak today
* An ADT is a set of operations and values that have some common purpose
    * An array has the purpose of storing values indexed by integers
    * A list has the purpose of storing values that we can iterate through
    * A PrintWriter has the purpose of generating output
* We generally achieve that purpose through the methods
    * Arrays need methods to get the value at position i, set the value
      at position i, and get the length
    * PrintWriters need methods to print things and to print newlines
* We also look at the practical applications of such ADTs

Once we've done all that, we look for ways to implement the ADT


Design confilct: minimalist vs. maximalist
* Scheme lists:  
    * Minimalist: cons, car, cdr, null, null?
    * Maximalist: member, trim, split, index-of, element-at, map, caaddar,
      length ...

Arrays
------

* Declare

        TYPE[] NAME

* Create

        new TYPE[SIZE]
        new TYPE[] { VAL1, VAL2, VAL3, ... }

* Access values

        NAME[INDEX]

* Set values

        NAME[INDEX] = VAL

* Get length

        NAME.length

