CSC207.01 2013F, Class 08: Some Basic Types: Numbers and Strings in Java
========================================================================

_Overview_

* Admin.
* Design of ADTs: Minimalist vs. Maximalist 
* Arrays, Continued.
* Modeling Strings.
* And Numbers.

_Admin_

* Warning! Friday the 13th falls on a Friday this month.
* Reminder: Mentor session TONIGHT at 8:30 pm 
* Although there are links (broken?) to labs for yesterday and today,
  we won't be holding those labs.  (Parts of the labs are in the homework
  assignment.)  I do hope to hold lab on Friday.
* Nationwide will be on campus next Tuesday to talk about (and recruit for)
  jobs and internships.  There's a 4:15 talk, but there's also a noon lunch
  for Math/Stats and CS majors.  Signs should be around.
* Reading for Friday (expect it Thursday; I'll send email)
     * Input and Output
* It's been noted that the kinds of questions I'm asking on your homework
  assignment are a lot like coding questions that get asked in interviews.
  The overlap is *not* intentional.  (I don't object to it, but I just
  choose questions that I think will challenge you appropriately.)
* If you are not on the CS mailing list and want to be on it, let me 
  know and I'll get you added.
* I see only one (worried) prologue for HW3.  
    * Here's a hint on the last problem: Recursion is likely to be your 
      friend, at least at first.
    * Experiments should suffice FOR THIS PROBLEM ONLY.
* EC opportunities:
    * Humanities Center Speaker Sarah Hendron, TONIGHT, 7:30 p.m., JRC101
      Waking the Machines: Art, Design, and Adaptive Technology
    * Learning from Alumni 2:15-4:05 Thursday: Ian Lunderskov '08
    * We think the Matt Atherton Thursday extra is NOT happening.  Sorry.
    * CS Table, Friday: Trusting Trust.
    * More?
* No EC, but a chance to talk about Feminist Action Coalition at 8pm 
  tonight in Younker
  

Minimalist vs. Maximalist ADT Design
------------------------------------

Why Minimalist?

* Laziness.
* Less for your audience to read.
* All your clients should need are the building blocks; you can't predict
  every possibility, so why try?
    * And your clients will benefit from having to implement them, 
      particularly if they are novices
    * Helps the client learning curve
* Anti-max: The more you have to implement, the more restricted the implementation
  * And you'll make tradeoffs
  * Example: Java has an ArrayList type: It's indexed like arrays, but
    it allows you to insert in the middle, like lists
* Anti-max: The more you have to implement, the less likely you are to
  try something new

Why Maximalist?

* Experienced programmers will make fun of you if you don't include  
  the procedures they expect
* As a client programmer, you can know that you will have most, if not 
  all of the utility procedures you will need.
    * Client programmers are more efficient
* Saves total programmer time

Sam likes minimalist approaches, at least for novice implementers

Arrays, Continued
-----------------

* Start with a few basic procedures:
    * Create/initialize/declare
    * Get ith element
    * Set ith element
    * Get length/size
* Maximalists might add
    * um - fill the array with u's and m's
    * convert to and from lists
    * copy values from an array to another array (yeah, a for loop would
      do the job, but ...)
        * A clever implementation might do this as a bit copy or in
          parallel
    * apply proc to each element, mutating each element
        * Or returning a new array
    * shuffle - rearrange randomly
    * member; indexOf
    * sort
    * print
    * Grab a subsection of an array
* A hidden issue
    * collections of values
    * homogeneous (simple; necessary for the "jump to start + width*index)
    * indexed by integers (typically, starting with 0)
    * We've implicitly added "Fixed size"

Vectors
-------

Java provides Vectors, which are dynamic arrays.

Declare

       Vector<TYPE> name;

Initialize

        new Vector<TYPE>(SIZE)

Set

        name.set(*index*, *val*)

Get

Length? (# elements vs capacity)

* Read the documentation for more information.

Strings
-------

What are strings? (Purpose/Philosophy)

* Human-readable ordered collections of characters (maybe ASCII, maybe EBCDIC, maybe Unicode)
* Practica: Interact with human beings
* Procedures (minimalist)
    * read them (input)
    * print them (output)
    * create new ones (with input of ...?)
    * compare alphabtically (given your local version of alphabetical)
    * length
    * check if empty (or does length == 0 suffice?)
    * concatenate
    * get individual elements
    * substring
    * mutate a letter

* In Java, strings are IMMUTABLE.  (So they can share memory.)

        eyes.println("Hi, " + studentOne);
        eyes.println("Hi, " + studentTwo);

* When you want string-like things that are mutable, use StringBuffers

        String val = "Hello";
        String newval = val + val;
        eyes.println(val.charAt(i));
        eyes.println("There are " + val.length() + " characters in val");
        if (val.compareTo(other) < 0) {
          eyes.println (val + " comes before " + other);
        }

Numbers
-------

*Not covered*
