CSC207.01 2013F, Class 09: Input and Output
===========================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries
    * Admin.
    * A few quick notes on HW 2
    * Questions on HW 3
* Leftover types topics.
* A few notes on textual output and input.
* Output.
* Input.
* Lab.

_Admin_

* The strange things that CS students discuss: "If two people are dating, are
  they boyfriend and girlfriend (or boyfriend and boyfriend) (or girlfriend and
  girlfriend) or (gender-netural-term-friend and ...)?"
* Reading for Monday (it's ready!)
    * Exceptions
* I've prepared a lab for today, but I don't know if there will be time.
* I hear that some of you are losing files.  You should make it a practice
  to save early and often.  You should also make it a practice to commit
  regularly.  (Say, after each working procedure you write.)
* I'm in the midst of grading HW2.  I should have it done by Monday. 
  We'll discuss the averaging problem.
* Only about half the class has filled out the prologue (as of
  8:30 p.m. on Thursday)
* EC opportunities:
    * CS Table, Friday: Trusting Trust.
    * CS Table, next Friday: Pair Programming.
    * More?

_HW 2_

* For the averaging problem, there are a variety of strategies
    * Promote the type of the parameters.
        * Many of you used `double`.  We'll talk about why that's
          a bad idea.
            * Floating points approximate.  Are you sure your code works
              correctly for every situation?
            * doubles are 64 IEEE floating-point numbers, they have
              about 52 bits, so we are okay
        * We'll also talk about why promotion may not be the
          best strategy.
what if we have

        public static long average(long left, long right) {
            return (left + right) / 2;
        } // average

will this work?

        public static long average(long left, long right) {
            return (long) (((double) left + (double) right) / 2);
        } // average

how about this?

        public static long average(long left, long right) {
            return (left/2) + (right/2);
        } // average

nope, won't work if both are odd ... so

        public static long average(long left, long right) {
            // Compute the average w/o overflow
            long tmp = (left/2) + (right/2);
            // Handle introduced inaccuracies
            if (isOdd(left) && isOdd(right))
                return tmp+1;
            else
                return tmp;
        } // average

coming up: generalized average: taking an array of longs as input

* Java carefully specifies all of its numeric types
   longs are 64 bits, twos complement
    * A few of you changed the preconditions.  I was pretty clear that
      I wanted you to *rewrite* the procedure, but I'll accept that
      as an approach (particularly since the testing lab suggests
      that approach for a similar problem).
    * Anything else?

_HW 3_

* Yes, exhaustive search is an acceptable initial technique for the
  last problem.  (And no, it won't be efficient.)
    * You might also try a strategy in which you say "Can I do this
      with one coin, with two coins, with three coins, ...?"
* No, you don't need to set up a lot of test cases for the last problem.
* What should we do on `splitCSV` if the input is crappy (e.g., only one
  double quotation mark) - You can crash and burn.  
* For the de-leet-ful problem, are all 3's e's? (Not quite, some are parts of B's,
  but there should be no 3's in your output.)


Leftover types topics
---------------------

* Two dimensions:
     * Real vs. Int
     * primitive type, object corresponding to primitive type, or Big
* Primitive types: Mostly like C, except specified
     * ints are twos-complement
* But the primitive types aren't objects
     * And so we have java.lang.Integer and java.lang.Double
* And we want arbitrary precisions
     * java.math.BigInteger

A few notes on textual output and input
---------------------------------------

* Textual I/O is useful for files
* We use an OO approach to I/O

Output
------

* PrintWriter
     * print
     * println
     * format (like printf)
* PrintWriters buffer their output  
     * need flush() to force outuput
* Can create with System.out
* Can create with files - new PrintWriter(new File('ooh.csv'))
;
Input
-----

* BufferedReader
     * read - read a character
     * readLine - read a line
* Can create with System.in
* Can create with files
     new BufferedReader(new FileReader(new File('ooh.csv')));

Lab
---

        public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {
            // ...
        }

