CSC207.01 2013F, Class 10: Exceptional Programming
==================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries
    * Admin.
    * Questions on HW3
* Dealing with errors.
* Java's Exceptions.
* [Lab](../labs/exceptions.html).

_Admin_

* New partners for this week's labs.
* Dutch letters!  Take half of one (if you'd like).
* Study break today at 8pm.
* Picnic Friday!
* VNC Instructions at http://www.cs.grinnell.edu/vnc
* Exception handling is one of the first places where my students start
  saying "Java is your nanny."  Can you tell why?
* I managed to finish reviewing HW1 this weekend.  You should have my
  responses.  You can also see answers to most questions in the FAQ.
* I'll reserve time in class today for questions on HW3.
* I expect to have the next homework available tomorrow.
* Readings for Tuesday:
  * Writing Your Own Classes
  * Standard Object Methods
* EC Opportunities
    * Convocation this Wednesday at noon.  (Sam rants about the importance
      of convo.  See the outline for details.)
    * Learning from Alumni Thursday @ 2:15 Sam Tape and company.
    * CS Extras Thursday @ 4:30: Kim Spasaro on Linguistics Programming
    * CS Table Friday (pair programming)
    * Participate in Humans vs. Zombies.  And yes, you can still get in.
    * Other?

_Questions on HW3_

* What should we return for part (the maknig change question): Choose one of these:
    * An array of numbers that give the count of each coin.  2, 7, 11, 54
       * For 28: 0, 4, 0, 0
       * Or 0, 28, 0, 0
    * An array of numbers that give the list of coin values.
    * DOCUMENT!
* Should we cite that Java API?  It depends on how you use it.  If you just look
  something up, I wouldn't bother.  If you copy code, I would cite it.


Dealing with errors
-------------------

* Some errors are the programmer's fault.  We call those bugs.
* Some errors are beyond the programmer's control
    * Bad inputs
    * Missing files
* We need to think about errors
* Sam's model: Your code gets used by other code, gets used by the GUI, interacts
  with user
    * YOUR UTILITY CODE SHOULD NOT USE PRINTF TO REPORT ERRORS!
* In Java, we have Exceptions/Errors to report errors
    * Caller provides two places to return: Success/Failure

-----------------

A procedure that can fail

   public static type proc(inputs) throws Exception

Fail

   throw new Exception("reason");

Dealing with errors - throw your own

   public static type caller(inputs) throws Exception {
       proc(...);
   }

Dealing with errors - Provide the alternate flow of control

  public static type caller(inputs) {
     try {
        proc(...);
        ...;
     } catch (Exception e) {
        // RECOVER
     }
        

Lab
---

* Question 1: Autoflush makes it print output as soon as you print a newline.
  (or at least use println).
     * If you don't flush or close at the end, your last output gets dropped.
