CSC207.01 2013F, Class 14: Inheritance, Continued
=================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries
    * Admin.
    * Questions on HW4.
* Q&A.
* Lab.

_Admin_

* Don't forget study break tonight at 8pm!
* Would you prefer that the current eboard link link to the source rather
  than the HTML?
* Sorry about the delays in grading.  Class and assignment prep takes priority.
  It also doesn't help that I'm booked every weekend until fall break.
* Today's strange conversation with my youngest son: "Dad, why do people
  go to hack-a-thons?"  "Lots of reasons ... and to build their programming
  chops."  "Hack.  Chop.  Funny dad."
    * On that note, we'll get a quick report on MHack.
* Reading for Tuesday: Documentation with Javadoc
* Android starts Wednesday.  I think I have one tablet for every two
  students.  I'll let you negotiate partners and who, if anyone, gets to hold 
  on to the tablet.
* EC Opportunities
    * Learning from Alumni: Jim Finnessy
    * CS Extras Thursday @ 4:30: Jennelle Nystrom on Microsoft
    * CS Table Friday (The Story of Mel, A Real Programmer)
    * G-Tones, Saturday, 3:30 at Herrick Chapel
    * Baseball Scrimmage Sunday
    * Water Polo Meet.  MITC.
* I'm trying to do very little lecture today.  We'll see if I succeed.
* HW4 is due Tuesday at 10:30 p.m.
    * Are folks okay if I generally move the due time for homework 
      from Monday to Tuesday?

Questions on HW4
----------------

_Can I store the numerator and denominator as BigInteger values?_

> Certainly.

_Why doesn't my `equals` method work?_

    public boolean equals(Fraction other) {
        return this.numerator.equals(other.numerator) &&
                 this.denominator.equals(other.denominator);
    } // equals(Fraction)

> If you write an `equals` method with a signature of
`equals(Fraction other)`, the Java often doesen't know to call it.
In general, it thinks it should call `equals(Object other)`.  So,
you have to cast.

    public boolean equals(Object other) {
        return this.equals((Fraction) other);
    } // equals(Object)

> or

    public boolean equals(Object other) {
        return (other instanceof Fraction) && 
                (this.equals((Fraction) other));
    } // equals(Object)

_Why does the constructor for fractions fail?_

> I think I wrote something like `if (this.denominator.equals(...))`
without first asssigning to `this.denominator`.  (Only some of you
seem to have had this problem.)

_We compare two fractions by subtracting one from the other and then
return the numerator as converted to an integer.  What do you think about 
this awesome approach?_

> Okay in theory, but ... overflow issues.  Try using .signum() or use
BigInteger.compareTo.

_Can we assume that our procedures work?_

> No.  But simple tests can test multiple procedures (e.g., constructor and
toString().

_What should `evaluate` return when given an assignment?_

> The value assigned.

_Is this like C in which you can have beautiful stuff like `r0 = r2 = r0 + 1`?_

> No, you do not have to support that.

Q&A on Other Issues
-------------------

_How would you have solved the "separate strings" problem from HW3?_

    // Count how many times the separator appears
        // Repeatedly use indexOf
    // Build the array of the correct size
    // Step through the string (using indexOf), with substring

Lab
---

Continue Friday's lab.
