CS207.01 2013F, Class 15: Documentation and Javadoc
====================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries
    * Admin.
    * Questions on HW4.
* Recent ideas.
* Documentation.
* Javadoc.
* Informal lab.  

_Admin_

* Reading for Wednesday: An Introduction to Android Development
* I'll distribute Android tablets and cases today.  Please make sure your
  tablet is charged for class on Wednesday and that you've done the initial
  setup.  
* Today's lab is documented in the EBoard and Outline.  (It's informal.)
* EC Opportunities
    * Learning from Alumni: Jim Finnessy
    * CS Extras Thursday @ 4:30: Jennelle Nystrom on Microsoft
    * CS Table Friday (The Story of Mel, A Real Programmer)
    * G-Tones, Saturday, 3:30 at Herrick Chapel
    * Baseball Scrimmage Sunday 11 am, we think
    * Water Polo Saturday/Sunday
    * Others?
* Other things
    * Face the Bear!  Go and see what's at the Bear 7-9 Wednesday night
    * Swipe your P-Card at the Football game

HW4 Questions
-------------

_How do we test if the constructor throws an exception?_

    try {
        Fraction f = new Fraction(1,0);
        fail("Zero denominator");
    } catch (Exception e) {
    }

_Can we pay attention to precedence?_

> Yes

Recent ideas
------------

* You can have a variable of class A and initialize it with class B, provided
  class B is a subclass of A.
      Counter c = new DoubleCounter(10);
* The activity of an object is determined by its actual type, not by the
  type you think it is.
* The method change is called "overriding" and should be marked with @Override
* Why declare something as the superclass?
     * Most frequently, we do this when writing a procedure.
     public void logStudent(Counter c, Student s)
* In contrast, if we write
      Super s = new Sub(...);
  We can only access the method names of Sub that are in Super

Documentation
-------------

* Help people understand code
* Audiences
    * Clients - Care about the *what* (and efficiency), not so much *how*
    * Users - Mostly about the UI
    * Fellow developers - Care about the implementation issues and overall
      structure
    * Yourself (as client, fellow developer, ...)
    * Maintainers/Supporters
* Other Audiences in a class environment
    * Grades
* Commenting early helps you think about problems
    * What's the big picture - what pieces are there and how do they fit together?
    * What do I expect this procedure to do?
    * How do I achieve that goal?
* Our focus is clients

Javadoc
-------

* Internal comments that provide nice documentation for clients (in HTML).
* Use slash-star-star ... star-slash
* Immediately precede class, interface, constant, method, field, etc. declarations

Informal lab.  
---------------

* Start with your classes from the inheritance lab.  Don't add comments (yet).
* Use the Javadoc tool to generate Javadoc.  
    * Project > Generate Javadoc
    * You can put the documentation in your project.
    * But you may find it useful to put it elsewhere.
* Preview the Javadoc in Eclipse.
* Preview the Javadoc in your Web browser.
    * `file:///home/username/path/to/project/doc/index.html`
* Add some Javadoc-style comments and see their effects.
* Figure out how to get different levels of protection revealed (or not
  revealed)
* Add preconditions and postconditions.
    * `-tag pre:cm:"Preconditions"`
    * `-tag post:cm:"Postconditions:"`
* Play (e.g., add constants and other things.)
