CSC207.01 2013F, Class 16: An Introduction to Android Development
=================================================================

_Overview_

* Admin.
* Why build Android Apps?
* Issues in Android development.
* Warnings!
* Lab.

_Admin_

* I realize that there's crud going around campus.  Do yourself and your
  classmates a favor and get rest if you are sick.  Drop me a note to let
  me know.
* It's good to see that many of you stopped at six hours.
* From this point onward, you can choose your own partners.
* Reading for Friday: Adding Actions to Your Android App
* Lea knows much more about Android development than I do.  
  I'm better at resolving problems than she is.  
  Together, we shold be able to make things go well.
* EC Opportunities
    * Learning from Alumni Thursday @ 2:15: Jim Finnessy
    * CS Extras Thursday @ 4:30: Jennelle Nystrom on Microsoft
    * CS Table Friday (The Story of Mel, A Real Programmer)
    * G-Tones, Saturday, 3:30 at Herrick Chapel
    * Baseball Scrimmage Sunday (11 am?)
    * Water Polo Saturday, 10:40 a.m. Sunday 10:40 a.m.
    * Others?
* Other things
    * Facing the Bear, 7-9 pm Wednesday
    * Swipe your P-Card at the Football or Soccer game (from Alum)
    * Poweshiek CARES March Thursday.  Leave from Herrick at 4:45 p.m.
      Email chenjerem@gmail.com for more info.  I can also forward
      you the email.
    * Poweshiek CARES March Thursday, Oct. 3.  Meet at Drake at 5 p.m.
    * GHS Homecoming Parade Thursday, Oct. 3.  If you've never seen a 
      small-town homecoming parade, it's worth it.  (And last year's
      homecoming queen is a current Grinnell student.)
    * Free Flu Shots 10-4 in JRC
* HW 5 will be released some time this afternoon/evening.

Why build Android Apps?
-----------------------

* Potentially makes work accessible - Show off to friends and family.
* Real-world applications
* Lots of students expressed interest
* Any big application is a good experience
* Ties in with Ushahidi
* Market 207 to prospective students
* Takes advantage of OOP!
* Let's us cover some new things that are part of national curricular standards
    * Event-driven programming
    * GUI
    * Markup languages
    * And more

Issues in Android development
-----------------------------

* Lots of interacting components.  PITA.
* GUI components
* Resources - Sounds, Images, Strings
* Code
    * Java!
    * XML
* Layouts: How do the components go together
* Connect!

Warnings!
---------

* Not deep.  Supplement, not primary activity.
* You thought Eclipse and Git were troublesome!

Lab
---

Start with

    /glimmer/android/adt/eclipse/eclipse

