CSC207.01 2013F, Class 17: Building Your First App (1)
======================================================

_Overview_

* Admin.
* Reflections from your first encounters with Android development.
* Lab.

_Admin_

* _Welcome to any visiting parents!_
* Reading for Monday: [Adding Activities to Your Android App](../readings/android-activities.html)
* Reminder: The Android Development kit is at   
  `/glimmer/android/adt/eclipse/eclipse`
* EC Opportunities
    * CS Extras Thursday @ 4:30: Adam, Jordan, and Sean on SysAdmin stuff
    * No Learning from Alumni next Thursday
    * CS Table Today (The Story of Mel, A Real Programmer)
    * CS Table next Friday (Coding the Law)
    * G-Tones, Saturday, 3:30 at Herrick Chapel
    * Baseball Scrimmage Sunday (11 am)
    * Water Polo Saturday 10:40 and some afternoon time or Sunday same times
    * Today at 12:45 is Caulkins class with Dwolla person
    * Hilary Mason is visiting the Caulkins class on Nov. 15
    * Others?
* Other things
    * Prevent getting sick GET YOUR FLU SHOT
    * Swipe your P-Card at the Football or Soccer games (or ...)
    * Poweshiek CARES March Thursday, Oct. 3.  Meet at Drake at 5 p.m.
    * GHS Homecoming Parade Thursday, Oct. 3.  If you've never seen a 
      small-town homecoming parade, it's worth it.  
* I'll do a quick demo on configuring your Eclipse to use jar files
  and picking the right IDE.

Reflections from your first encounters with Android development
---------------------------------------------------------------

* Issues
    * You can design interfaces graphically or with XML, and the two
      interact well.
    * Large project development requires dealing with *lots* of files that
      interact.
         * You've started to see that in your Java development, more extreme
           in Android development.
    * To use strings, you *should* put the string in a separate file
         * Permits reuse
         * Might help conceal it from the user
         * Can edit things separately
         * Makes it easy to do i18n
    * When you have a good IDE, making a small app is pretty easy.
         * And a great library helps even more

* Problems
    * Android devices do not connect easily, unless you know the trick of
      "hit the version number 23.5 times"
    * Folks who were relying on AP/IB CS are in as deep dooodoo as everyone else
Lab
---

* It will be essential to have the reading available while doing today's
  lab.
