CSC207.01 2013F, Class 18: Building Your First App (2)
======================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on homework.
    * Questions on Android.
* Android activities.
* Switching between activities.
* Additional info: Making lists.
* Lab.

_Admin_

* There seems to have been some confusion about the reading for today
  (mostly because I had misnamed the HTML file).  
  *  *Please let me know if I've assigned a reading and it's not available
     when you expect it to be.*
* There is no reading for Tuesday.
* Reminder: The Android Development kit is at   
  `/glimmer/android/adt/eclipse/eclipse`
* Reminder: The Oracle Java is in
  `/net/java-7-oracle`
* Mr. Stone will be guest lecturing (or at least supervising lab) on 
  Wednesday and Friday.
* EC Opportunities
    * CS Extras Thursday @ 4:30: Adam, Jordan, and Shaun on SysAdmin stuff
    * No Learning from Alumni this week
    * CS Table Friday (Coding the Law)
    * Others?
* Other things
    * Poweshiek CARES March Thursday, Oct. 3.  Meet at Drake at 5 p.m.
    * GHS Homecoming Parade Thursday, Oct. 3.  If you've never seen a 
      small-town homecoming parade, it's worth it.  

_HW Questions_

* How do we demonstrate testing?  I'm happy with experiments.
* Why do we have the PrintWriter as a parameter?  So you can choose where
  to send the output.

_Android Questions_

Android activities
------------------

* Each screen is a new "Activity"
* Use the awesome GUI to build a new Activity
     * A new layout in XML to customize
     * More strings (in same location)
     * Etc.

Switching between activities
----------------------------

Buttons, with onClick handlers

    public void toInfoActivity(View v) 
    {
        Intent intent = new Intent(this, ShabunkInfoActivity.class);
        startActivity(intent);
    } // toInfoActivity(View)

Up arrow button

Additional info: Making lists
-----------------------------

Lab
---

