CSC207.01 2013F, Class 22: OOD in Practice: Designing a List Interface
======================================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Amazon code ninja challenge.
* The design of ADTs, revisited.
* Exercise: Designing a list ADT.
* Quick notes on implementation.

_Admin_

* I've brought some swag back from GHC.   We'll try to find an equitable
  way for each of you who did not attend GHC to get an item.
* I finished the Amazon Code Ninja challenge that I tried faster than
  anyone around me.  I've tried to replicate it and I'll give you a few
  minutes to try it.
    * No, you may not compile and run the code.
* Just so you know, most of this week will be dedicated to in-class design
  problems, problems that we will do as a group.  (Although maybe sometimes
  in small groups.)
* I'm booked solid doing a SHACS review all day today and part of tomorrow.
* HW6 is now reduced to the Dutch National Flag problem.
* Exam 1 should be distributed in rough form on Tuesday.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities
    * Road to Rio, Tuesday 7:00 p.m., Natatorium.
    * CS Extras, Thursday: Graduate School in CS
    * Learning from Alumni, Thursday: Tony Stubblebine '00 - CEO at Lift
    * Codebreaker Friday night @ 7pm.
    * ???

_Amazon Code Ninja Challenge_

* There were a few.  This is the one I attempted (and solved faster than
  anyone around me).
* Come up with an answer (without using the compiler) and show it to me.

The design of ADTs, revisited
-----------------------------

* Think about the what, not the how
* Three or so steps in designing an ADT
    * Overall goal or philosophy
        * Arrays: Collections of data, indexed by sequential integers
           * Fixed size vs. Dynamic
           * Starting at 0 or startnig where you want
    * Applications/client code (use case)
    * Think about what procedures the ADT needs
* Once you've designed the ADT, you can think about implementation
    * Layout in memory
        * Big chunk of data
        * Small chunks of data with interlinked pointers
    * Fields
    * Implement methods
    * Find running time

Exercise: Designing a list ADT
------------------------------

* You've seen lists multiple times
    * Scheme lists in 151 and 208.
    * Linked lists in 161.
    * UshahidiLists in 207.
    * Everyday written lists outside of CS classes
    * ArrayLists in Java
* What's the big picture philosophy a list?
    * Collections of data
    * Ordered - one comes after another comes after another
       * All but one element has a successor
       * All but one element has a predecessor
    * Resizable / modifiable
    * Insert in arbitrary places
    * Intended for sequential access
* Things not necessarily in lists
    * Efficient access to "middle" elements
    * Support a fast "find" method
* Lists are resizable ordered collections of data that support sequential accesss
  (iteration)
* Categories of operations
    * insert/add
    * get / access sequentially
    * remove elements
    * big picture mutation - reverse
    * medium picture mutation - swap positions of two values; sort, 
       find
       * vs. replace
    * toString
    * sublist
Quick notes on implementation
-----------------------------

