CSC207.01 2013F, Class 23: A List Interface, Continued
======================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * About exam 1.
* A list ADT, continued.

_Admin_

* Lea says that you all have difficulty reading.
* Read the documentation for java.util.AbstractList and java.util.ListIterator
  for tomorrow's class.
* Also read [Lists with Current Considered Harmful]
  (http://csis.pace.edu/~bergin/papers/ListsWithCurrent.html)
* The titles of individual classes may not follow the actual content - Our goal
  is to think about design.
* Exam 1 is ready, although in draft form.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities
    * Road to Rio, Tuesday 7:00 p.m., Natatorium.
    * CS Extras, Thursday: Grad School
    * Learning from Aluni, Thursday: Tony Stubblebine '00 - CEO at Lift
    * Codebreaker Friday night at 7pm in Harris.
    * CS Table Friday: Hopper

_Exam 1_

* Standard Sam policies (although mental health option is gone; we can talk
  about that)
* Five questions.
* Question 1: Predicates
     * Functions are not first class objects in Java (yet)
     * So we simulate with objects with one method
        interface Predicate<T> {
           public boolean test(T val)
        }
     * In Scheme, (define isEven (lambda (x) (= (mod x 2) 0)))
     * In Java
       class Even implements Predicate<Integer> {
          public boolean test(Integer i) {
             ...
          }
       }
     * Using this predicate
         Predicate<Integer> even = new Even();
         if (even.test(42)) {
             pen.println("*The* answer is even");
         }
         pen.println("even.test(i): " + even.test(i));q
         if (even.test(expt)) {
             return square(pow(val, expt/2));
         }
    * Building new predicates from old
        * In Scheme:
           (define negate (lambda (pred) (lambda (x) (not (pred x)))))
           (define negate (lambda (pred) (o not pred)))
           (define negate (l-s o not))

A list ADT, continued
---------------------

* Create
* Add/insert
* Delete
* Iterate - look at the values one by one
* Swap
* Big-picture things - sort, shuffle, reverse, etc.

    public interface ListOfStrings  {
        // Constructors

        // Adders

        // Deleters

        // Iterate stuff - Want to go through the list
        /**
         * Create a new position at the beginning of the list
         */
        ListPosition front();

        /**
         * Given a current location in the list, get the value at the 
         * position.
         *
         * @pre
         *    We must have an element at the current position.
         * @pre
         *    ListPostion must be associated with this list.
         */
        String get(ListPosition p);

        /**
         * Advance to the next position.
         * @pre
         *    hasNext(p)
         */
        void advance(ListPosition p);

        /**
         * Determine if a ListPostion has a next element.
         *
         * @pre
         *    ListPostion must be associated with this list.
         */
        boolean hasElement(ListPosition p);

        /**
         * Determine if one position precedes another.  MAXIMALIST
         */
       boolean precedes(ListPosition p1, ListPosition p2);

        // Swap
        /**
         * Swap two elements of the list.
         *
         * @pre
         *   p1 and p2 are associated with the list
         *   hasElement(p1), hasElement(p2)
         * @post
         *   The values at the positions
         */
        public void swap(ListPostition p1, ListPosition p2);

    } // interface ListOfStrings
Make the list generic
---------------------

(Maybe) some notes on implementation
------------------------------------

