CSC207.01 2013F, Class 24: Generics
===================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on exam 1.
* ADT Design, considered.
* A list ADT, continued.
* Making the list "generic".

_Admin_

* Readings for Friday
    * http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/collections/overview.html
    * http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/intro/index.html
    * http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/collections/interfaces/index.html
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities
    * CS Extras, Thursday: Grad School
    * Learning from Aluni, Thursday: Tony Stubblebine '00 - CEO at Lift
    * Codebreaker Friday night at 7pm in Harris.
    * Codebreaker discussion after the movie.
    * Wit starts Thursday
    * Debate about need-blind admissions tonight
* 10/10 is this weekend.  Please behave responsibly.  Please take care of
  yourself and each other.
* Sam will only be availble intermittently via email this weekend.

_Exam 1_

* What will go in a typical class that implements the Predicate<T> interface?
    * the test method
    * maybe some public constructors
    * maybe some other private/package/protected methods
    * maybe some private/package/protected fields
* You can provide corrections to the exam starting Thursday at noon.

Our List ADT
------------

    public interface ListOfStrings {
        // Constructors

        // Adding Elements

        // Removing Elements

        // Iterating Lists
        /**
         * Get the position of the front of the list.
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the list is empty.
         */
        public ListPosition front() throws Exception;

        /**
         * Advance to the next element.
         *
         * @pre
         *   The list has a next element.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no next element.
         */
        public void advance(ListPosition pos) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Get the element at a particular position.
         *
         * @pre
         *   pos is valid and associated with this list.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the preconditions are not met.
         */
        public String get(ListPosition pos) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Determine if it's safe to advance to the next position.
         *
         * @pre
         *   pos is valid and associated with the list.
         */
        public boolean hasNext(ListPosition pos);

        // Other operations

        /**
         * Swap the elements at positions p1 and p2.
         *
         * @pre
         *   Both p1 and p2 are valid and associated with this list.
         *   v1 = get(p1), v2 = get(p2)
         * @post
         *   p1 and p2 are unchanged.
         *   v1 = get(p2), v2 = get(p1).
         */
        public void swap(ListPosition p1, ListPosition p2);

    } // interface ListOfStrings

ADT Design, considered
----------------------

As you've already started to see, there are a huge number of choices
that you make in ADT design, some subtle, some not so subtle.

* How do you figure out if you've made the right decision?  Usually,
  you write client code (or, better yet, have other people write
  client code).
* And there are often multiple correct decisions.
* Sometimes naming can make a difference.  What you think is a clear name,
  someone else might interpret differently (e.g., our nextValue)
* Here are some related names.  Does it matter which we use?
    * Position
    * Cursor
    * Iterator
* Here's a design decision we didn't yet consider: Are positions static
  (e.g., once you have a position it's always at the same place) or
  mutable (e.g., you move through the list).

A list ADT, continued
---------------------

    /**
     * Lists have cursors/iterators, which fall between elements (or before
     * the first element or after the last element).
     */
    public interface ListOfStrings {
        // Adding Elements
        
        /**
         * Insert an element at the location of the cursor (between two
         * elements).
         *
         * @pre
         *   lit must be associated with the list and in the list.
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the precondition is not met.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no memory to expand the list.
         *
         * @post
         *   The previous elemetn to the iterator remains the same
         *   str is immediately after the iterator
         *   The element that previously followed the iterator follows str
         *   And writing postconditions is a PITN
         */
        public void insert(String str, ListIterator lit) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Add an element to the end of the list.  (Creates a one-element
         * list if the list is empty.)
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no memory to expand the list.
         */
        public void append(String str) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Add an element to the front of the list.  (Creates a one-element
         * list if the list is empty.)
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no memory to expand the list.
         */
        public void prepend(String str) throws Exception;

        // Removing Elements
        /**
         * Delete the element immediately after the iterator.
         *
         * @post
         *    The remaining elements retain their order.
         * @post
         *    The iterator is at the position
         *    The successor of the element immediately before the iterator
         *      is the successor of the now-deleted element.
         */
        public void delete(ListIterator lit);

        // Iterating Lists
        /**
         * Get an iterator right before the front of the list.
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the list is empty.
         */
        public ListIterator front() throws Exception;

        /**
         * Advance to the next position between elements
         *
         * @pre
         *   The list has a next element.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no next element.
         */
        public void advance(ListIterator it) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Get the element immediately following this iterator.
         *
         * @pre
         *   it is valid and associated with this list.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the preconditions are not met.
         */
        public String get(ListIterator it) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Get the element immediately before this iterator.
         */
        public String getPrev(ListIterator it) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Determine if it's safe to advance to the next position.
         *
         * @pre
         *   pos is valid and associated with the list.
         */
        public boolean hasNext(ListIterator it);

        // Other operations

        /**
         * Swap the elements at the positions the corresopnd to it1 and it2.
         *
         * @pre
         *   Both it1 and it2 are valid and associated with this list.
         *   v1 = get(it1), v2 = get(it2)
         * @post
         *   it1 and it2 are unchanged.
         *   v1 = get(it2), v2 = get(it1)
         */
        public void swap(ListIterator it1, ListIterator it2);

        /**
         * Search for a value, moving the iterator to that value.
         *
         * @return true, if the value was found
         * @return false, if the value was not found
         *
         * @post If the value is not found, the iterator has not moved.
         * @post IF the value is found, get(it) is value
         */
        public boolean search(ListIterator it, String val);

        /** 
         * Grab a sublist.  (Detailed discussion not included.)
         *
         * @pre
         *    Valid iterators.
         *    start precedes end.
         * @throws Exception
         *    If the iterators are invalid.
         */
        public ListOfStrings subList(ListIterator start, ListIterator end)
           throws Exception;

        /**
         * Determine if one iterator precedes another iterator.
         */
        public boolean precedes(ListIterator it1, ListIterator it2);
    } // interface ListOfStrings

Making the list generic
-----------------------

