CSC207.01 2013F, Class 25: The Collections API
==============================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * About the exam.
* Making our list interface generic.
* Beyond our own design: The collections API.

_Admin_

* No readings for Monday.  Work on the exam!
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities
    * Codebreaker Friday night at 7pm in Harris.
    * Codebreaker discussion after the movie.
* Drake Library book sale this weekend
* I already have corrections to the exam, but have not made them.  Keep
  sending them in.
* I should have the repo up soon.
* Cool booksale this weekend.
* 10/10 is this weekend.  Please behave responsibly.  Please take care of
  yourself and each other.
    * And lock your doors
    * And help the people on Cowles and Younker 1st recover
* EC for going to Wartburg this weekend and cheering on Xcountry

_Exam Questions_

* What's the name of the class that sorts for DNF (DNF.dnf).
* Can DNF.dnf throw exceptions?  No.  If you fail to meet preconditions,
  it can do whatever it wants.
* Do we have to deal with incorrect inputs for DNF.dnf?  No.  You just want
  to make sure that it works correctly with correct inputs.
* For problems 4 and 5, do we just have to implement the STUBs, or add procedures.
    * Just finish the STUBs.
* Can you explain a bit more about what you want for loop invariants?
    * A loop invariant is a condition/assesrtion that, if holds at beginning of
      the loop, also holds at the end.
    * Specific enough that it helps you understand the problem.
    * General enough that you can guarantee that it holds.
    * Note: The invariant can be temporarily invalidated in the middle
    * For this problem, the only things we know about are:
        * The total number of beans in the jar
        * The number of dark beans
        * The number of light beans

Making our list interface generic
---------------------------------

* How do we generalize the following so that it works for Integers or 
  UshahidiIncidents, or BigDecimals, or whatever?
* Strategy one (early Java): Use Objects
     * Yay polymorphism!  We can put Strings or UshahidiIncidents or ...
       into the list.
     * And our lists can be heterogeneous - We can have an Integer and a String
* But heterogeneity can be problematic.  How do you map or sort or .... a
  heterogeneous list?
     * Java philosophy: Catch possible type errors at compile time rather than
       run time
         Scheme: (define whatever (x) (* x x))
         ...
         (define morestuff (fun y)
            (whatever (fun y)))
        Java wants to know before you run the program whether you'll have
          type errors.
* Java redesign: Allow "generic" structures that still do some kind of type checking,
  so that we can enforce type safety.
* Soln': Parameterize a class definition ("Generics")
     class ListOf<Type>
        we can plug in type variables, much like we plug in variables elsewhere

     ListOf<Integer> grades;
     ListOf<Student> csc207;
     ListOf<Object> randomCrapInSamsOffice;
       and ...

    /**
     * Lists have cursors/iterators, which fall between elements (or before
     * the first element or after the last element).
     */
    public interface ListOf<Type> {
        // Adding Elements
        
        /**
         * Insert an element at the location of the cursor (between two
         * elements).
         *
         * @pre
         *   lit must be associated with the list and in the list.
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the precondition is not met.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no memory to expand the list.
         *
         * @post
         *   The previous elemetn to the iterator remains the same
         *   str is immediately after the iterator
         *   The element that previously followed the iterator follows str
         *   And writing postconditions is a PITN
         */
        public void insert(Type str, ListIterator<Type> lit) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Add an element to the end of the list.  (Creates a one-element
         * list if the list is empty.)
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no memory to expand the list.
         */
        public void append(Type str) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Add an element to the front of the list.  (Creates a one-element
         * list if the list is empty.)
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no memory to expand the list.
         */
        public void prepend(Type str) throws Exception;

        // Removing Elements
        /**
         * Delete the element immediately after the iterator.
         *
         * @post
         *    The remaining elements retain their order.
         * @post
         *    The iterator is at the position
         *    The successor of the element immediately before the iterator
         *      is the successor of the now-deleted element.
         */
        public void delete(ListIterator<Type> lit);

        // Iterating Lists
        /**
         * Get an iterator right before the front of the list.
         *
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the list is empty.
         */
        public ListIterator<Type> front() throws Exception;

        /**
         * Advance to the next position between elements
         *
         * @pre
         *   The list has a next element.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If there is no next element.
         */
        public void advance(ListIterator<Type> it) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Get the element immediately following this iterator.
         *
         * @pre
         *   it is valid and associated with this list.
         * @throws Exception
         *   If the preconditions are not met.
         */
        public Type get(ListIterator<Type> it) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Get the element immediately before this iterator.
         */
        public Type getPrev(ListIterator<Type> it) throws Exception;

        /**
         * Determine if it's safe to advance to the next position.
         *
         * @pre
         *   pos is valid and associated with the list.
         */
        public boolean hasNext(ListIterator<Type> it);

        // Other operations

        /**
         * Swap the elements at the positions the corresopnd to it1 and it2.
         *
         * @pre
         *   Both it1 and it2 are valid and associated with this list.
         *   v1 = get(it1), v2 = get(it2)
         * @post
         *   it1 and it2 are unchanged.
         *   v1 = get(it2), v2 = get(it1)
         */
        public void swap(ListIterator<Type> it1, ListIterator<Type> it2);

        /**
         * Search for a value, moving the iterator to that value.
         *
         * @return true, if the value was found
         * @return false, if the value was not found
         *
         * @post If the value is not found, the iterator has not moved.
         * @post IF the value is found, get(it) is value
         */
        public boolean search(ListIterator<Type> it, Type val);

        /** 
         * Grab a sublist.  (Detailed discussion not included.)
         *
         * @pre
         *    Valid iterators.
         *    start precedes end.
         * @throws Exception
         *    If the iterators are invalid.
         */
        public ListOf<Type> subList(ListIterator<Type> start, ListIterator<Type> end)
           throws Exception;

        /**
         * Determine if one iterator precedes another iterator.
         */
        public boolean precedes(ListIterator<Type> it1, ListIterator<Type> it2);
    } // interface ListOf<Type>

Continuing the example

     ListOf<Integer> grades;
     ListOf<Student> csc207;
     ListOf<Object> randomCrapInSamsOffice;
     ...
     grades.prepend(5);
     csc207.prepend(5); // COMPILATION ERROR!  5 is not of the appropriate type
     Professor SamR = ...;
     csc207.prepend(SamR); // COMPILATION ERROR!  SamR is not a student

     ListOf<Person> grinnellcs;
     grinnellcs.prepend(SamR);  // OKAY, Profesor is a subtype of person, whether or
                                //   not most students believe that claim
     grinnellcs.prepend(new Student("A", "A", "A");
    

Beyond our own design: The collections API

* At some point, the designers of Java said "Everyone is going to build these 
  ADTs, so let's just put them in the language".
* Benefits
     * Standardized: Easier for someone joining a project to understand the interface
     * Programmers become more efficient.  (Of course, good programmers already
       have their libraries that the plug in to whatever project the use.)
     * Subclassing might allow you to customize.
     * Likely to be well tested and implemented.
* Disadvantages
     * You don't know what's going on behind the scenes - efficiency issues
     * You might not understand the documentation (because you and the
       documenters think differently)
     * If you only use prebuilt ADTs and switch to a new language that doesn't,
       you'll be clueless as to how to design your own.
     * Sometimes you will have to change your client code to match the
       standard ADT.
    
------------------------------------------

