CSC207.01 2013F, Class 27: Implementing Lists with Arrays, Continued
====================================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Final set of exam questions.
* Status of our array-based implementation of lists.
* Basic iterator tasks.
* More complicated iterator tasks.
* Some issues.

_Admin_

* No readings for the rest of the week.  Keep Heck Week sane!
* We're going to try a different approach to today's class.  For each section,
  I'm going to give you a few minutes to sketch an answer and note any
  complications, then we'll talk about them as a group.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities
    * Learning from Alumni: Eryn O'Neil '09
    * CS Extras: Max Mindock
    * CS Table: TBD
    * Others?

_Exam Questions_

* How do I get a comparator?

   Comparator<String> compare = new Alphabetic();
   SirTedVictoria stuff = new SirTedVictoria(156, compare);
 
* Why are strings with uppercase letters before strings with lowercase letters?
    * Because we use ASCII or Unicode
    * Because we didn't implement our comparator with
        str1.toLowerCase().compareTo(str2.toLowerCase()

Status of our array-based implementation of lists
-------------------------------------------------

* Fields!
* prepend, append, toString
    * Clever trick for making prepend O(1) rather than O(n) [did not implement]
* Iterators will get elements out of the array, but only started
    * Field with index, called pos

Basic iterator tasks
--------------------

* hasNext, advance, get.  DONE
* front.  DONE

More complicated iterator tasks
-------------------------------

* insert.  DONE
* Weird output.  Explain for next class.
* Question: What does deletion do to the iterators

Some issues
-----------

