CSC207.01 2013F, Class 28: Linked Lists in Java
===============================================

_Overview_

* Admin.
* Leftover topics.
* Java iterators.
* Linked lists.
* Implementation details.

_Admin_

* No readings for the rest of the week.  Keep Heck Week sane!
* Assignment 7 available in draft form.  Keep Heck Week insane!
* We will probably continue the work a little / talk a little approach,
  although I'd like to hear your opinions on how it went.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities
    * Learning from Alumni: Eryn O'Neil '09
    * CS Extras: Max Mindock
    * CS Table: TBD
    * Others?
* Other things
    * Kington convo today

Leftover topics
---------------

* When we advanced beyond the end of the list and then inserted, we got
  some very strange output.  Why?
     * We have three important fields:
          * list.values
          * list.size
          * iterator.pos
     * When we advance too far, we are incrementing pos
     * When we insert, we insert at the current pos (beyond the end) and
       then increment size
     * If we've advanced twice, there's a "hole" in the array
* Intuitively, deletion and insertion can screw up other iterators.  How 
  should we handle this?
     * E.g., 
         it1 = stuff.front(); 
         it2 = stuff.front(); 
         s1 = stuff.get(it1);
         // Code that does not do anything to it1
         s2 = stuff.get(it1);
         // Can we say anything about the relationship
    * What code in the middle might make s1 != s2
         * stuff.delete(it2);
         * stuff.insert("hello", it2);
         * stuff.prepend("ouch");
    * One solution: Every time you insert, delete, and otherwise modify, you
      can update all the iterators
    * A less painful solution: Postcondition: "All other iterators are now invalid"
    * An alternate strategy: Store the value in the iterator
        * Then you get strange things like
            s1 = stuff.get(it1);
            stuff.contains(s1) => FALSE
* Is this iterator valid?
    * Add a "number of mutations" counter to the list.  If the number of mutations
      now is the same as when the iterator was created, the iterator is still valid.
    * If we don't want to invalidate the current iterator, we have to update its
      mutation count, too.
* Many of our procedures have the precondition that the iterator belongs
  to the list.  How do we verify that precondition?
    

Java iterators
--------------

* Why see what the folks at Sunacle did?
    * Juxtaposing different designs can be useful - Help us think in new ways
    * We can learn from smart people
    * There may be aspects of Java lists that clients will expect of your lists
      (or other data structures)
    * And those can be incorporated in the languag ein diffeferent ways
* If you class implements Iterable, then you can write
    for (var : IterableObject) {
        doSomethingWith(var);
    }
 * And Java expands it to
    Iterator it = IterableObject.iterator();
    while (it.hasNext()) {
        var = it.next();
        doSomethingWith(Var);
    }

Linked lists
------------

* Deficiency in array-based lists: Adding is often O(N)
* A different approach makes adding O(1)
* Idea: Linked nodes: Value plus link to next element
* Assume that a cursor is just a link to a node (but you can change that)
* Insertion:
     * Create a new node
     * Link that new node to our successor
     * Link from current node to new node
     * Constant time
* Delete *next* element
     * Make the next pointer the next of the next
* Delete *current* element?
     * Nodes have two pointers, rather than one - PITN
     * Start at the beginning and find the previous element - O(N)
     * Shove a "deleted" in the list, and the next time you iterate, 
       delete the element
     * Some other PITNs
     * Copy data from next node and delete the next node.  (Potential drawbacks)
     * Cursors store links to current and previous element
* Insert at front?
* Insert at end?
     
Implementation details
----------------------

* Forthcoming
