CSC207.01 2013F, Class 29: Doubly-Linked Lists
==============================================

_Overview_

* Admin.
* Review of singly-linked lists.
* Insertion and deletion in singly-linked lists.
* A trick for simplifying insertion and deletion.
* Doubly-linked lists.
* Circularly-linked lists.

_Admin_

* Assignment 7 remains "Implement doubly linked lists and then add
  Ushahidi incidents."
* We will continue the work a little / talk a little approach.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities
    * CS Table: Cool readings on building software
    * Others?
* Have a good break!

Review of singly-linked lists
-----------------------------

* Basic idea: Combine *nodes* that have
* We're going to wrap these nodes into something that implements our list interface
    * Fields in LinkedList
    * How to prepend and append
    * How to build an iterator

Insertion and deletion in singly-linked lists
---------------------------------------------

* Prepend and APpend are our first examples
* Question: 
    * What fields?  You decide.
    * What do nodes look like
        class Node<T> {
            T val;
            Node<T> next;
            public Node<T>(val, next) {
                this.val = val;
                this.next = next;
           }
       } // class Node
    * What are the method signatures?
        void prepend(T val) throws Exception;
        void append(T val) throws Exception;
* Useful fields
    * front, the front of the list

Prepend

    public void prepend(T val) {
        // Create a new node, with T as a val and front as next
       Node<T> newfront = new Node(T, this.front);
       this.front = newfront;
    } // prepend(T)

    public void prepend(T val) {
        // Create a new node, with T as a val and front as next
       this.front = new Node(T, this.front);
    } // prepend(T)

Two strategies:

* Keep a field for the end of the list  
* Iterate through to the end of the list
* A field is the winner

Code, revisited

    Node<T> front;
    Node<T> back;

    public void prepend(T val) {
        // Create a new node, with T as a val and front as next
       this.front = new Node(T, this.front);
    } // prepend(T)

    public void append(T val) {
        // Create a new node with val and no successor
        // Update the former back of the list to make this new node the next node
        this.back.next =  new Node(T, null);
        // Update our notion of the back of the list
        this.back = this.back.next;
    } // append(T)

What do we initialize front and back to for an empty list?

* null!

    public void prepend(T val) {
        // Create a new node, with T as a val and front as next
        this.front = new Node(T, this.front);
        // Special case: Empty list
        if (this.back == null)
            this.back = this.front;
    } // prepend(T)

    public void append(T val) {
        // Deal with empty list
        if (this.back == null) {
            this.back =  new Node(T, null);
            this.front = this.back;
        }
        else {
            // Create a new node with val and no successor
            // Update the former back of the list to make this new node the next node
            this.back.next =  new Node(T, null);
            // Update our notion of the back of the list
            this.back = this.back.next;
       }
    } // append(T)

Worrying about special cases in linked lists is really important!  (Was it empty?
for insert; Will it be empty? for delete)

A trick for simplifying insertion and deletion
----------------------------------------------

On to insert and delete with a cursor

    public class LinkedListCursor<T> implements Cursor {
        
    } // LinkedListCursor<T>

Add after current element is easy, delete current element is hard

* So have the cursor point to the previous element

Deletion

    cursor.prev.next = cursor.prev.next.next;

A problem: How do we delete the first element, and where is cursor.prev when we
start?
  
Doubly-linked lists
-------------------

Twice the links!  Twice the fun!  Twice the potential for errors.

Circularly-linked lists
-----------------------

Dummy node with link to front and back
