CSC207.01 2013F, Class 30: An Introduction to Sorting
=====================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Exam 1 returned.  Makeups due Thursday at 10:30 p.m.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on HW7
    * A few notes on Exam 1
* The problem of sorting.
* An object-oriented approach.
* Testing our sorting algorithm.

_Admin_

* I will return exam 1 at the beginning of class.
* I returned HW 6 via email.  I still plan to grade HW 5.  I will not grade 
  HW 2-4, but will give you all checks.  (Sorry, it doesn't seem worth grading 
  at this point.)
* Today we will continue the approach of "think for a few minutes, share
  with the class; if there's time left, repeat".  I have some lab activities 
  planned for tomorrow, but also some full class activities.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Study abroad in Budapest session, Wednesday, Lunch, Science 3821
    * Learning from Alumni, Thursday: Jordan Shkolnick '11 (Microsoft)
    * CS Extras, Thursday: ??? (Maybe not)
    * CS Table, Friday: Forthcoming

_HW 7_

How do we deal with predicates in search/select

From the exam ...

     public interface Predicate<T> {
          public boolean test(T val);
     }

So, for testing ...

     public class IsEven implements Predicate<Integer> {
          public boolean test(Integer val) {
              return (val % 2) == 0;
          }
     }

Can we make doubly- circularly-linked lists?  Yes.

_Notes on Exam 1_

* Unit testing and the DNF
* Analyzing run times
     * 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + ... = n(n+1)/2.  Remember Gauss
     * 1 + 2 + 4 + 8 + ... + 2^k = 2^(k+1) - 1.  ThAnks 
 What credit do we get for redoing problems?
     * The average of the old and new grade

_Was Sam overly harsh on HW6?_

* No, but he'll change most of the grades.  If you wrote correct code, check,
  even if you didn't do two versions.

The problem of sorting
----------------------

* We have a bunch of stuff and want to put it in order.
* Questions:
     * What type is "bunch of stuff"?  Something ordered, like an array or list
     * What does "in order" mean?  It depends on the type.  For strings it 
       could be alphabetical, or size, or ...
          * In Java, we could use the "natural" order, using compareTo
              * Identifiable because our code crashes when compareTo doesn't exist
              * Or Java won't compile
              * Or Eclipse underlines
              * Or use Comparables
          * Use Comparators

An object-oriented approach
---------------------------

* Let's say I want to write N different sorting algorithms and be able to
  substitute in the sorting algorithm of choice.  What do I do?
* Design classes, interfaces, and methods

Signature for the sort method?

    /**
     * Sort an array in place, using comp to arrange values.
     *
     * @pre
     *   We can safely apply comp to any pair of elements in unsorted.
     *   A.k.a "For all, i, j, 0 <= i, j < unsorted.length,
     *     comp(unsorted[i],unsorted[j]) does not throw an exception.
     * @post
     *   For all reasonable i, comp.compare(unsorted[i],unsorted[i+1) <= 0
     *   unsorted is a permutation of the original unsorted
     */
    public void sort(T[] unsorted, Comparator<T> comp);

How do we 'package' it up (not put it in a Java package)?


Testing our sorting algorithm
-----------------------------

