CSC207.01 2013F, Class 31: Quadratic Sorts
==========================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on HW7.
    * Questions on Exam.
* Our sorting package.
* Testing sorts.
* Insertion sort.
* Selection sort.
* Lab.

_Admin_

* AA wants to know if anyone takes notes: MH
* Today we will do a few group exercises and then a few lab exercises.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Tonight's Harry Hopkins talk, tonight at 7pm
    * Study in Budapest Lunch, Wednesday
    * Learning from Alumni, Thursday: Jordan Shkolnick '11 (Microsoft)
    * CS Table, Friday:  Ambient Belonging
    * One Grinnell Prize Event next week

### Questions on HW7

_Where do I find `Node`?_

> In DoublyLinkedList.java, because it's only needed by that class.

_What does `search` do?_

> Moves forward in the list until it finds a value for which the predicate holds.
If it doesn't find such a value, returns false and doesn't move.

_Can I rewrite the `Cursor` interface so that it's `Cursor<T>`?

> Yes.

_Can we work in groups of size 3?_

> Yes.

### Questions on Exam

_How should we submit?_

> Electronic version as attached tarball/zip

Our sorting package
-------------------

* Two versions of sort, one in-place, one out-of-place
* It's easy to turn an in-place algorithm into an out-of-place sorting algorithm
    * Clone the array
    * Sort the new array in place
    * Return it
* It's easy to turn an out-of-place sorting algorithm into somethiung that simulates
  an in-place sorting algorithm (although it uses extra space)
    * Get the sorted version
    * Copy the values back
* You can see these strategies in practice in SorterBridge.java
* If you extend SorterBridge, and implement one of the two sorts, the other
  gets implemented "automagically"

Testing sorts
-------------

* Good testing involves automated generation of lots of cases
* And close attention to postconditions
* Randomized testing:
    * Generate a lot of random arrays
    * Sort them
    * Check postconditions
        * It's a permutation of the original - EXPENSIVE, PITN
        * They're in the correct order - EASY
* Can we avoid the "is it a permutation" check?
    * Use sequential integers
    * Start with a sorted "random" array.  Then permute it.  Then sort it.
    * Then cmopare.
* More systematic: Geneate every permutation of an array, sort it, then compare.
    * Think about this question for Wednesday
    * Goal: Do it "in place" - make a permutation, clone, sort, compare,
      go on to the next permutation

Insertion sort
--------------

* Divide array into sorted (nothing) and unsorted (everything)
* Repeatedly insert the thing at position i into the sorted stuff at positions
  [0..i)
* Analysis: How long does this take:
    * O(N) - Do something for each element.  But each of those is not constant.
    * O(N!) - Each insertion is O(N).  O(N) of those.  So O(N^2)
    * 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + ... is also O(N^2)
* Sam's old bad analysis:
    * At each step, we do binary search to find the right place
    * And it only takes one step to insert once you know the right place
        * Whoops!   Insert is O(N), even if you know the place
    * So N*(LogN+1) steps

Selection sort
--------------

* Divide array into sorted (nothing) and unsorted (everything)
* Repeatedly swap the smallest remaining element into the end of the sorted section
* Running time
    * O(N) find smallest and swaps
    * Each find smallest is O(N)
    * So O(N^2)
* But only O(N) swaps.  Since writing memory is usually slow, cutting from
  O(N^2) to O(N) is good.

Generate all Permutations
-------------------------

* Goal *ALL* permutations
* Model: Some sort of loop or recursion that repeatedly
    * Makes a new permutation
    * Clones it
    * Sorts the new permutations
    * Does something (for testing, compare to original; for expt, print)
* You effectively have to make a loop for every position.  How can we do that?
* If we could write the nest loop

<pre>
    for (int i = 0; i < vals.length; i++) {
        // put the ith value in position (vals.length-1)
        // nested loops for positions [1 .. vals.length-2]
    } // for
</pre>

* So use recursion
<pre>
   recurseOver(pos)
        for (int i = 0; i < vals.length; i++) {
          // put the ith value in position pos
          // recurseOver(pos-1)
      } // for

Lab
---

* Clone https://github.com/Grinnell-CSC207/sorting
* Read code
* Finish implementing selection sort
