CSC207.01 2013F, Class 32: Merge Sort
=====================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
 * Admin.
    * A C problem
    * Ushahidi and the project
    * Questions on HW 7
    * Questions on Exam makeup
    * HW 8
* An introduction to merge sort.
* Analyzing merge sort.
* Lab.

_Admin_

* While you're waiting, fork and clone https://github.com/Grinnell-CSC207/sorting
* Today we will do a quick analysis of merge sort and then follow it up
  with some lab exercises.
* I'm moving the due time for the electronic and printed versions of the 
  exam to 10:30 pm on Friday night.  Put the printed version under my
  door.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Study in Budapest Lunch, Today
    * Learning from Alumni, Thursday: Jordan Shkolnick '11 (Microsoft)
    * CS Table, Friday:  Ambient Belonging
    * One Grinnell Prize Event next week

### A C Problem

    char *
    foo(char *t, char *s) 
    {
      while (*t++ = *s++) 
        ;
      return t;
    } // for

### Ushahidi and the Project

* We should discuss the project and the role of Ushahidi in this class.
  Clearly, we were less successful at getting the materials ready than
  we would have liked this summer, and I was as unsuccessful at getting
  them ready during the semester.
* I've removed Ushahidi from HW 8.
* Project summary:
    * Find a client; negotiate the design of an Ushahidi installation
    * Build an Ushahidi installation for that client
    * Write some custom report or tool for the client
* Do you still want to do the project?  Revisit Friday.

### HW 7

Due tonight

_Why implement java.util.Iterator when we have cursors?_

> Real Java programmers build iterators for any collection class they design


    public class MyIterator<T> implements java.util.Iterator<T> {
         // +--------+----------------------------------------------------------
         // | Fields |
         // +--------+

        Node<T> pos;

         // +--------------+----------------------------------------------------
         // | Constructors |
         // +--------------+

         // +---------+---------------------------------------------------------
         // | Methods |
         // +---------+

        public T next() {
             // Find out what's right after pos
             // Advance the position
             // Return the value we got in step 1
        }
        public boolean hasNext() {
        }

        public void remove() {
             throw new UnsupportedOperationException();
        }
    }

> Once you've implemented iterators, folks can write

    DoublyLinkedList dll;
    for (val : dll) {
    }

_When should I put the type variable in brackets?

> Usually, whenever you are referring to a generic/parameterized class. 

> Not when you are using it as a type

> So

    public T extractValue(Node<T> node)

> Also when parameterizing static methods

    public static <T> returnType methodName(...)

### Exam

_Any hints on DNF?_

> Write `isDNF`

### HW 8

* Implement five different sorting methods;
* Do other stuff

An introduction to merge sort
-----------------------------

* Two sorting algorithms, both O(n^2)
* Can I do better?
    * Practical: Look for other algorithms
    * Theoretical: Does one exist: A compare/swap sorting requires O(nlogn) steps
* There are O(nlogn) sorting algorithms based on compare/swap
    * Merge sort
    * Quicksort
    * Heap sort
* One key approach to speeding up algorithms: Divide and conquer
* Divide the array in half
* Sort each half
* Merge the two halves:  
    * Create a new array
    * Repeateldy grab the smallest remaining thing from each array and copy
      to the new arraya - O(1) steps

Analyzing merge sort
--------------------

* How do we figure out how fast this is?  Recurrence relations!
* Write a function that describes the running time of our algorithm on input
  of size n
* t(n) = t(n/2) + t(n/2) + n
* t(n) = 2*t(n/2) + n
* How do we figure this out?
* Base case: t(1) = 1
* Build up
     * t(2) = 2*t(2/2) + 2 = 2*t(1) + 2 = 2*1 + 2 = 4
     * t(4) = 2*t(4/2) + 4 = 2*t(2) + 4 + 2*4 + 4 = 12
     * t(8) = 2*12 + 8 = 32
     * t(16) = 2*32 + 16 = 80
* Build down
     * t(n) = 2*t(n/2) + n      // Note that t(n/2) = 2*t(n/4) + n/2
     * t(n) = 2*(2*t(n/4) + n/2) + n      // Simplify
     * t(n) = 4*t(n/4) + 2n     // Note that t(n/4) = 2*t(n/8) + n/4
     * t(n) = 4*(2*t(n/8) + n/4) + 2n   // Simplify
     * t(n) = 8*t(n/8) + 3n     // Note that t(n/8) = 2*t(n/16) + n/8
     * t(n) = 8*(2*t(n/16) + n/8) + 3n  // Simplify
     * t(n) = 16t(n/16) + 4n
     * t(n) = (2^4)t(n/(2^4)) + 4n
     * t(n) = (2^x)t(n/(2^x)) + xn
     * Choose k s.t. 2^k = n
     * t(n) = nt(n/n) + kn
     * t(n) = nt(1) + kn
     * t(n) = n + kn
     * If 2^k = n, then k = log_2(n)
     * t(n) = n + n*log_2(n)
     * t(n) is in O(nlogn)
* 

Lab
---

