CSC207.01 2013F, Class 37: Pause for Breath: Sorting
====================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on HW9.
* A few small things.
    * Formatting issues.
    * Some comments on git and github.
    * Code you should never write.
* indexOfSmallest.
* Partition for Quicksort.
* Iterative merge sort.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* I returned HW8 last night.  Most of today will be going over issues
  from that assignment, particularly looking at the two hard sorting
  algorithms.
* Reminder: I get so much email that sometimes I miss some, and often I
  file it automatically without reading it.  If you need me to read your
  email
    * Give it a clear title that indicates that I should read it.  "Homework"
      and "Exam" suggest to me that you are submitting work.
    * Remind me if I haven't responded in a day or two.
    * And remind me again if I still haven't responded.
* There are three sets of code
    * The stuff on github: <https://github.com/Grinnell-CSC207/sorting>
    * An interactive illustration that I've built but didn't document:
      [examples/sorting-illustration](../examples/sorting-illustration)
    * The things we'll build today: 
      [examples/sorting-pause](../examples/sorting-pause)
* I will need a 207 grader for next semester.  Does anyone think you can
  do the same level of commenting (although perhaps a bit more politely)?
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * CS Table, Today, Network Time Protocol
    * Careers in Math, Monday at noon
    * Monday, 4:15/4:30: The New CS Curriculum
    * Town Hall, Wednesday, November 13, noon or 7:30 p.m.
    * Learning from Alumni, Thursday: Atul Gupta, Trustee
    * CS Extra, Thursday: Hilary Mason '00
    * CS Table, Next Friday, HCI
    * Innovation Class, Friday, 12:45, Hilary Mason '00
    * CDO with Hilary Mason '00, Friday, ???
    * Digital Commons talk Monday, November 19, 7:00 p.m. or so

### Questions on HW9

* Can we just look at powers of two and interpolate?  Yes
* The RPN calculator is REQUIRED!

Some comments on git and github
-------------------------------

* Commit regularly!
* Commit small chunks.  (You can more easily undo small chunks than big
  ones.)
* Write decent log messages.

Formatting issues
-----------------

Why might the following upset me?

    int indexOfSmallest(T[] vals, Comparator<T> order, int lb, int ub) {
        Integer index;
            Integer minIndex = lb;
        for ( index = lb + 1; index < ub; index++){
                    if ( order.compare(vals[minIndex], vals[index]) > 0){
                            minIndex = index;
                    }
            }
        return minIndex;
    } // indexOfSmallest(T[], Comparator<T>, int, int)

Code you should never write
---------------------------

What should happen to a 161 student who writes the following at the
end of the semester?

    char *str = (char *) malloc(12 * sizeof(char));
    str = "Hello world";

Important lesson: In C, when you assign to a pointer, you change what it points to.

Related lesson: In Java, when you assign to an object, you're just assigning a
pointer (although we call it a reference).

   String a = "Hello";
   String b = "Goodbye";
   String c = a;
   a = b;

What's the relation to that and the following Java?

    T[] values = (T[]) new Object[computedSize];
    values = merge(vals1, lb1, ub1, vals2, lb2, ub2, order);

indexOfSmallest
---------------

What's wrong with the following code?

    int indexOfSmallest(T[] vals, Comparator<T> order, int lb, int ub) {
        int i = 0;      // Fix i = lb
        while(i<vals.length){
            if (order.compare(vals[i], vals[lb]) < 0) { // Fix i = ub
                lb = i;
            }
            i++;
        }
        return lb;
    } // indexOfSmallest(T[], Comparator<T>, int, int)

What happens if we use this for selection sort?

    5, 1, 6, 2, 8, 3
    *

    1, 5, 6, 2, 8, 3
    !  *

    5, 1, 6, 2, 8, 3
    !  !  *

Partition for Quicksort
-----------------------

The code we develop can be found in [examples/sorting-pause](../examples/sorting-pause/src/edu/grinnell/csc207/sorting/Quicksorter.java)

* We'll write invariants for partition.
* Then we'll see an example of partition in action.
* Then we'll write partition.

Iterative merge sort
--------------------

The code we develop can be found in [examples/sorting-pause](../examples/sorting-pause/src/edu/grinnell/csc207/sorting/IterativeMergeSorter.java)

* We'll write invariants for merge.
* Then we'll write merge.
* Then we'll write iterative merge sort.
