CSC207.01 2013F, Class 39: Priority Queues and their Basic Implementation
=========================================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions.
* A short introduction to priority queues.
* Array-based implementations.
* Sorting with priority queues.
* Running times.
* Lab.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* I will reserve time for questions on HW9.
* There is no reading for tomorrow.  Tomorrow we start to design a new
  interface that we will explore for the next few weeks (up through
  Turkey break).
* I'm still looking for time to get grading done.  Most of the coming
  weekend is reserved for grading (both classes).
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Town Hall, Wednesday, November 13, noon or 7:30 p.m.
    * *Debate, Tomorrow, Unknown time*
    * Learning from Alumni, Thursday, 2:15: Atul Gupta, Trustee
    * Tech Friday thingy in Des Moines.  (Yes, you can miss my class Friday
      if you go.  Do the lab on your own.)
    * CS Extra, Thursday, 4:15: Hilary Mason '00
    * Evening chat with Hilary Mason '00, Thursday, 8-9 pm
    * CS Table, Next Friday, HCI
    * Innovation Class, Friday, 12:45, ARH 302, Hilary Mason '00
    * Career Connections with Hilary Mason '00, Friday, 4:15-6:30 (???)
    * Swim meet, Saturday, Some time
    * ISO Dinner, Sunday
    * Digital Commons talk Monday, November 19, 7:00 p.m. or so
    * "Data Sovereignty: The Challenge of Geolocating Data in the Cloud",
      November 25, 4:15 JRC 101
    * "Gold Fever" by Andrew Sherburne '01 or so, 7:00 p.m., Monday, 
      November 25, ARH 302
    * Tuesday, November 20, 4:15 p.m., JRC 209  a gaming event with the 
      game [d0x3d!]  
    * Unknown Startup Thingy in Des Moines

### Questions on HW9

* Simple experiments are acceptable for verification.
* What's an "interesting" operation?
    * Something arithmetic is fine.
    * But stack operations are cool, too.  "Rotate the top elements on the stack."

A short introduction to priority queues
---------------------------------------

* Linear structures:
   * "Deal with elements one at a time."
   * Primary operations: put and get.
   * A policy informs what value is returned by get.
* Priority queue: Give the highest priority thing back
* Priority determined by comparator.

Array-based implementations
---------------------------

Running times
-------------

* Unordered array
    * O(1) to add
    * O(n) to get
* Ordered array
    * O(n) to add
    * O(1) to get

Which is better?

* Depends on how you're using it.
    * n puts, 1 get - Use unsorted
    * n puts, n peeks, n gets - Use sorted
* Measure performance!
* Which is easier to implement?

Sorting with priority queues
----------------------------

* Step 1: Shove everything into the priority queue
* Step 2: Grab everything out of the priority queue

Can we do better?
-----------------

* Stacks and queues: put and get are O(1)
* Priority queues: put or get is O(n)
* Can someone smart enough find an implementation of priority queues in which
  both put and get are O(1)
    * Yes: 2.  Why?
    * No: those who read (and trust) Wikipedia
       * Argument: You've been told that there's no compare-and-swap algortihm
         that's faster than O(nlogn).  Priority-queue-sort would be O(n) if both
         get and put are O(1)
* After break, we'll learn a really cool data structure that lets us do both
  put and get in O(logn).  (For some stupid reason, this data structure is 
  called a heap)
