CSC207.01 2013F, Class 41: Implementing Dictionaries with Arrays or Lists
=========================================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on the homework.
* Implementing dictionaries, mark I.
* Looking ahead: A better implementation.
* Lab.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* <https://github.com/Grinnell-CSC207/linked-dictionaries>
* Have you decided upon a site for the course and who gets to make the
  site?
    * If you really don't want to make your own site, you can feel free
      to continue to suck data from other sites.  Just be reasonable in
      your usage.
    * Lea will set up squirrels.crowdmap.com, or something similar
* Reminder: Next Tuesday we're going to the Digital Commons roundtable.
* I'm going to drop the homework due the week after Thanksgiving so that
  you can have a better Thanksgiving break.
* I thought it would be useful to remind you of why I teach the way I do.
    * I think you learn a technique better if you've thought about the
      problem before hearing/reading a solution.  (And you learn it even
      better if you develop it yourself.)
    * While I think it's important that you know how to implement and
      use key data structures and algorithms, I think it is equally important
      that you learn techniques that you can apply as you design and
      build your own algorithms and data structures.  (Yes, even though
      there are many built in to Java and other languages, sometimes
      efficiency is such a concern that you'll really want to implement
      a structure that is tuned to your usage.
        * Plus, interviewers expect that you have these skills.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * National Philanthropy Day, today (Donate to a charity of your choice)
    * NO CS TABLE THIS WEEK!
    * Innovation Class, Friday, 12:45, ARH 302, Hilary Mason '00
    * Career Connections with Hilary Mason '00, Friday, 4:15-6:30 Burling Lounge
    * Swim meet, Saturday, 3pm - Show PCard and get money for athletics
    * Football, Saturday, noon - Show PCard and get money for athletics
    * Digital Commons talk, Monday, November 18, 7:00 p.m. or so
    * CS Department Talk, Wednesday, November 20, noon
    * "Data Sovereignty: The Challenge of Geolocating Data in the Cloud",
      November 25, 4:15 JRC 101
    * "Gold Fever" by Andrew Sherburne '01 or so, 7:00 p.m., Monday, 
      November 25, ARH 302
    * Tuesday, November 26, 4:15 p.m., JRC 209  a gaming event with the 
      game [d0x3d!]  

### Questions on the homework

Implementing dictionaries, mark I
---------------------------------

* Four initial questions
    * Where do we start thinking about implementations? - How do we organize
      the data in memory?
        * Chunks of memory (arrays)
        * Linked structures
    * What fields do we store
    * How do we do the methods
    * Running time
* Simple implementation one: Arrays or linked lists of key/value pairs
    * Maybe in alphabetical order
    * Maybe in arbitrary order
* In order: How do we implement
    * put - insert in the correct place (just like in insertion sort)
      O(n)
    * get - iterate through from beginning until you find it
      O(n)
    * get - binary search 
      O(logn)
    * remove - find it (logn), take it out (1) and shove things over (n) => O(n)
* Unordered (linked list)
    * put - shove at the end (or at the front)
      O(1)
    * get - iterate through from beginning until you find it
      O(n)
    * remove - find it (n), take it out (1) -> O(n)

Looking ahead: A better implementation
--------------------------------------

* What techniques have we learned for making things faster?
    * Sorts: From O(n^2) to O(nlogn) - key idea: Split into smaller pieces
      "Divide and conquer" (supported by recursion)
    * randomness and luck can help
    * Linear to binary - Big idea is "divide and conquer"
    * Assorted insights
* Can we apply divide and conquer to our data structure design?
* Can we build a structure that is linked (fast to extend), easy to find
  the middle, and "in order"
* Trees!  Can trees help us

Lab
---

* Fork and clone the repo.
* <https://github.com/Grinnell-CSC207/linked-dictionaries>
* Read the tests.  Assume we're only testing get/put/remove.  What's
  missing.
* Run the tests.  Did they succeed?
* Read the code.  What potential issues do you see?
* New test one: Forthcoming
* New test two: Forthcoming
* Implement the iterators
