CSC207.01 2013F, Class 44: Trees, Generalized
=============================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on the exam.
* Thinking about trees.
* Trees, abstracted.
* A linked implementation.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* What did you think about yesterday?
* Fixed unit test for problem 1.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * CS Department Talk, Today, Noon (with Pizza), 3821
      Writing Bug-Free Code with Theorem Provers
    * CS Table Friday, The New Curriculum
    * Hamlet, Friday (7:30 pm), Saturday (7:30 pm), Sunday (2:00 pm)
    * Swim meet Saturday at some time
    * Typhoon Halyan Relief benefit show, Sunday, November 24th from 7-9pm 
      in Harris.  (If the entry fee is a burden, let me know and I'll
      give you the money.)
    * "Data Sovereignty: The Challenge of Geolocating Data in the Cloud",
      November 25, 4:15 JRC 101
    * "Gold Fever" by Andrew Sherburne '01 or so, 7:00 p.m., Monday, 
      November 25, ARH 302
    * Tuesday, November 26, 4:15 p.m., JRC 209  a gaming event with the 
      game [d0x3d!]  

### Questions on the exam

_Is the prologue up yet?_

> The prologue is now available at <http://bit.ly/207exam2pro>

_Any hints on dealing with the functions as objects problem?_

> I'd suggest that you first write the functions assuming that all of
the types are integers.  Once you've gotten that working, you can start
to think about the generic types.

_Can you explain the `Iterator.remove` method?_

> It removes the value you've just seen.

> Suppose we have the list a b c d and want to remove the b

    Iterator<...> it = list.iterator();
    it.next();  // Returns a
    it.next();  // Returns b
    it.remove();        // Removes b

_If we pass all of the unit tests you provide, is our answer correct?_

> In general, yes.  However, you still must take a reasonable approach.
For example, you could simulate deletion in BSTs by putting `null` in
as the value and then doing some clever maniuplations.  But I specify
that your really do have to delete nodes and rearrange the tree.

_What should we make anonymous and inner in the iteration problem?

> Just the iterator.  (You might make the node and cursor inner classes, but it's
not necessary.)

Thinking about trees
--------------------

* Big idea: A third way to structure data!
    * Chunk of data - Array
    * Linearly Linked nodes
    * Trees: Links go in multiple directions
* Trees can also be ADTs
    * A tree represents relationships between objects
    * Hierarchy at a company
    * Type hierarchies in Java
    * Decision tree
    * Partial order (e.g,. prereqs at Grinnell)

Trees, abstracted
-----------------

* Philosophy/ Goal
     * Organize items in a hierarchy
* Purpose / Use Cases
     * See above
* Procedures / Methods

Terminology:

* Each item in the tree has zero or more *children*
    * The "arity" of an item is the number of children
* Almost every item in the tree has a *parent*
* One item in the tree is designated as the *root*, which has no parent
* The *depth* of an item is the length of the path from the root to that item
* The *height* of a tree is the maximum depth of any item
* Two items with the same parent are called *siblings*
* The *size* of a tree is the number of items
* A *leaf* is an item with no children.

What methods should we provide? (assume we're trying to model hierarchies, not
decision trees or partial orders)

* Observers
    * Tree.depth(item)
        * Might be a "node"
        * Might be a "location"
        * Might just be the name of a value
    * arity(item) - How many classes have 151 as a direct prerequisite
    * height() - Get the height of a tree
        * Implementation one: Recurse through the tree O(n)
        * Implementation two: Store it as a field in each node (assuming we're
          using nodes)
        * Implementation three: Store it in the tree
    * leafp(item) - Is it a leaf?
    * size() 
        * Implementation one: Recurse through the tree O(n)
        * Implementation two: Store it as a field in each node (assuming we're
          using nodes)
        * Implementation three: Store it in the tree
    * int sibs(item)
        * How many siblings?
        * Or maybe an iterator
        * Or maybe an array
        * Or maybe ...
        * If siblings are ordered
            leftSib
            rightSib
     * Item parent(Item item)
     * sib?(Item me, Item you)
     * children(Item item)
         * Iterator? 
         * Array
     * get(Item item)
         * Necessary if we distinguish nodes/locations from values
    * Iterator<Item> leaves()

* Mutators

An array-based implementation of binary trees
---------------------------------------------

* Each value we store gets an index.
* Store in "breadth-first" order
    leave blanks for missing nodes and missing children
* The children of the value at position i are at ...?
* The parent of the value at positin i is at ...?

Here's a tree of the indices we'd get

                   0
                /      \
              1          2
            /   \      /   \
          3      4    5      6
         / \    / \  / \    / \
        7   8  9  10 11 12 13 14
