CSC207.01 2013F, Class 45: Tree Traversal
=========================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on the exam.
* Orders for traversing the tree.
* Implementating traversal algorithms.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* Congrats to DG for being athelete of the (some time period).
* Less than half of you have filled out the prologue.  Remember that it's
  due at 5pm today.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * CS Table today, The New Curriculum
    * Hamlet, Today (7:30 pm), Saturday (7:30 pm), Sunday (2:00 pm)
    * Collegium, Sunday, 2:00 pm
    * Swimming, tomorrow (Saturday), 10:00 am.
    * Typhoon Halyan Relief benefit show, Sunday, November 24th from 7-9pm 
      in Harris.  (If the entry fee is a burden, let me know and I'll
      give you the money.)
    * "Data Sovereignty: The Challenge of Geolocating Data in the Cloud",
      November 25, 4:15 JRC 101
    * "Gold Fever" by Andrew Sherburne '01 or so, 7:00 p.m., Monday, 
      November 25, ARH 302
    * Tuesday, November 26, 4:15 p.m., JRC 209  a gaming event with the 
      game [d0x3d!]  

### Questions on the Exam

_Can you give us a different iterator for problem 1?_

> Done.

_Do we need to explicitly free nodes?_

> No.

_Did you really accidentally post the solution to problem 2?_

> Yes.  Spend at least thirty minutes on it.  Then look at my solution.  
Then do something else interesting with the higher-order procedures.  (That is,
show interesting examples of their use.)

Suppose we put the elements in a binary tree into an array ...
--------------------------------------------------------------

* Order of arrayness: Left-to-right, across each level, pretending all
  are there.
* Given a node at position p, where are it's children and where is its parent?
    * Left child: p*2 + 1
    * Right child: (p+1) * 2
    * Parent: floor((p-1)/2)

Orders for traversing the tree
------------------------------

* Decision point one: Across or down
    * Across: Breadth-first
    * Down: Depth-first
* Decision choice two: Left-right or right-left
* Decision choice three (depth-first): 
    * Preorder (prefix): Print/Process node before subtrees
    * Inorder (infix): Print/Process node between subrees
    * Postorder (postfix): Print/process node after subtrees
* Decision choicd three (breadth-first)
    * Top-down
    * Bottom-up
Implementating traversal algorithms
-----------------------------------

* That's right: Lab

