CSC207.01 2013F, Class 46: Implementing Dictionaries with Hash Tables
=====================================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on the exam.
* An introduction to hash tables.
* Hash functions.
* An exercise.
* Hashing in Java.
* Handling collisions.
* Handling removal.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* I'm returning the exam redos.  I'm not sure that it was worth allowing
  you to redo the exam.  It looks like those who did so spent a lot of time
  on it, and it didn't make a big difference in grades.  It also took a lot of
  my time and mental energy.  
* Further thoughts on unit tests:  A good unit test does two things. 
    * It tells you that your code does not work correctly.
    * It gives you enough information to help diagnose the problem.
* Congrats to DG.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * "Data Sovereignty: The Challenge of Geolocating Data in the Cloud",
      November 25, 4:15 JRC 101  TODAY!
    * "Gold Fever" by Andrew Sherburne '01 or so, 7:00 p.m., Monday, 
      November 25, ARH 302  TODAY!
    * Tuesday, November 26, 4:15 p.m., JRC 209  a gaming event with the 
      game [d0x3d!]  
    * Any self-care week activity (after Turkey break)

### Questions on the Exam

_Do you want more errata?_

> No.  There's way too much as it is.  And yes, you are up to one letter grade of
extra credit.  (I will, however, be capping scaled grades at A+.)

_Are you going to penalize the bozos who turned in the prologue Friday, but after 5pm_?

> Why do you folks put me in these situations?  What do you think I should do?
The class decides that we should paint a big red P (for procrastinator) on their
forehead.

_If we borrow code from a homework assignment, should we cite our colleagues?_

> Yes.

_Can you give me some hints on problem 1?_

> See the white board.

_Can we record you?

> Only if you promise not to post to the InterWeb.

_What should we do if the thing to be removed is the last value?

> Should be covered in case 01 or case 02.

An introduction to hash tables
------------------------------

* Reminder: Implementing dictionaries
    * Unordered arrays/lists of key/value pairs
    * Ordered arrays of key/value pairs - Binary search for get
    * Binary search tree
* Can we do even better?  Can we get O(1) for put/get?
* Stacks and queues allow O(1) put/get, but that's not for anything?
* Indexed collections with O(1) put and get?  Yes!  Arrays!
* Key idea: Convert each key to an integer in the range 0...length-1
* put: Convert to integer.  A[function(key)] = (Key,Value)
* get: return A[function(key)].value
* Assumption: The array is big enough to hold all of the key/value pairs we want
  to put in
* put: Convert to integer.  A[function(key) % A.length] = (Key,Value)
* get: return A[function(key) % A.length].value

Hash functions
--------------

* Goal 1: If A equals B, then the function converts A and B to the same integer
* Goal 2: If A does not equal B, then the function probably gives different
  integers

An exercise
-----------

Hash your first name (in a table of size 30)

    A: 1   F: 6   K: 11  P: 16  U: 21  Z: 26
    B: 2   G: 7   L: 12  Q: 17  V: 22
    C: 3   H: 8   M: 13  R: 18  W: 23
    D: 4   I: 9   N: 14  S: 19  X: 24
    E: 5   J: 10  O: 15  T: 20  Y: 25

    SAMUEL: 19 + 1 + 13 + 21 + 5 + 12 = 71 => 11
    WILLIAM: 23 + 9 + 12 + 12 + 9 + 1 + 13 = 79 => 19
    FRED: 6 + 18 + 5 + 4 = 33 => 3

    0:                  10:
    1:                  11:
    2:                  12:             22:
    3:                  13:             23:
    4:
    5:
    6:
    7:
    8:
    9:

Hashing in Java
---------------

Handling collisions
-------------------

Handling removal
----------------

