CSC207.01 2013F, Class 47: Hash Tables, Continued
=================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on the Exam.
* Questions on Hash Tables.
* Lab.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* We'll be doing hash table implementations over the next two classes.
* Question for the class: Should I require a textbook next semester?
    * Recommend
    * Maybe gather money for communal textbooks
* Last chance!  Is anyone willing to grade for me next semester?  You'll learn
  new things.  Thanks ML and AK
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Tuesday, November 26, 4:15 p.m., JRC 209  a gaming event with the 
      game [d0x3d!]  
    * Any self-care week activity during purgatory week.
    * _One Grinnell_ rally on December 4 at 4pm (unless you are taking photos).

### Questions on the exam

_For problem 3, is it acceptable if I ignore the implementation specs and, say
make a decision to, say, remove the smallest element in the right subtree?_

> Major changes are not acceptable.  For a change like this, I may run
a different set of unit tests (since some of the unit tests are designed
particularly for the implementation I specified.)

_If we pass your unit tests, is that enough for correctess?_

> Yes, with the exception mentioned above.

_For problem 3, how do the unit tests help me identify problems?_

> There are two kinds of problems that get identified: Those with the
regular tests and those with the random tests.  If you look at the call
stack for the regular tests, youknow exactly what input caused it to
fail, and so you can step through and see what's happening.  (I usually
write experiments.)  For the random tests, you'll see a printout of the
operations used to create the tree.  Again, that gives you an opportunity
to write an experiment that tells you what's happening.

_ I know you love invariants.  How many are we required to write?_

> None.  But you'll find they help.


Questions on Hash Tables
------------------------

Lab
---

