CSC207.01 2013F, Class 48: Hash Tables, Continued
=================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Quick exam comment.
* Questions.
* Lab.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* Does anyone know why there's a drawing of a naked alien on the board?
  (Odie seems to like it alot.)
* As much as it will probabably upset certain alums, I'm giving you until
  Friday at 2pm for submitting the electronic version of the exam.  You
  can turn in the academic honesty statement on Monday.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Any self-care week activity 
    * _One Grinnell_ rally on December 4 at 4pm (unless you are taking photos).
        * And yes, I've sent a note to Dean Arora about the scheduling.

### Quick exam comment

In spite of a curriculum that emphasizes recursion, you folks are much
too reluctant to use recursion.   How recursion helps with `remove`

     Node remove(key, Node here)
          // Case: Nothing left
          return null;

          // Case: Keys match
          ...
          return recomputedTree;

          // Case: Key is less than here.key
          here.smaller = remove(key, here.smaller);
          return here;

          // Case: Key is bigger than here.key
          here.larger = remove(key, here.larger);
          return here;

One of the many things you didn't learn in 161

      x = foo ? bar : baz;

This is the legendary C "conditional expression".  

* Evaluate foo
* If foo holds, the expression has the value of bar
* If foo does not hold, the expression has the value of baz

Questions on Hash Tables
------------------------

Lab
---

