CSC207.01 2013F, Class 49: Heaps
================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions.
* Priority queues, revisited.
* Recent implementation techniques.
* Heaps.
* Adding elements to heaps.
* Removing elements from heaps.
* Heap sort.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* Exam 2 returned.
    * I tried to be very detailed in my comments, even though I used a
      coarse-grained grading system.
    * Please turn in your academic honesty statements.
    * Please follow formatting conventions.
    * I hope to distribute additional notes later this week.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Learning from Alumni Thursday: Erik Hanson (in person)
    * CS Extras Thursday: Summer Opportunities in CS
    * CS Table Friday: TBD.
    * Swim meet Friday/Saturday.
    * Any self-care week activity.
    * _One Grinnell_ rally on December 4 at 4pm (unless you are taking photos).
        * And yes, I've sent a note to Dean Arora about the scheduling.

Priority queues, revisited
--------------------------

ADTs

* Philosophy/Purpose
* Practicum (Use Cases)
* Procedures (Methods)

Priority queues

* Philosophy:
    * Put things in in any order, get them out in a highest-priority-first order.
* Use Cases:
    * Lots of them.  News articles ... in order of popularity or date or ....
    * If we can *change* priority, gives fairness in, say, a printer queue.
        * We generally don't allow priorities to change.
    * Sorting!
* Procedures:
    * put, get, peek

Implementation:

* Unordered list/array
    * put: O(1)
    * get: O(n)
    * peek: O(n)
* Ordered array/list
    * put: O(n)
    * get: O(1)
    * peek: O(1)

Recent implementation techniques
--------------------------------

* Trees - Two dimensional linked structures
* Hash tables - Clever uses of arrays

Heaps
-----

* Modified binary search tree
    * Highest priority item at the top
    * And balanced
* A heap is a binary tree 
    * With the *heap property*
        * The root is >= the root of each subtree
        * Each subtree has the heap property
    * That is 'nearly complete'
        * Every level except the last level is complete
        * The last level is shoved all the way to the left (or complete)
* See whiteboard for sample heaps

Adding elements to heaps
------------------------

* Two invariants to maintain: Nearly complete and heap property
* Nearly complete seems harder to reconstruct if we're doing other stuff, so
  we'll prioritize that.
* Add the element at the end of the last level (or the beginning of the next level,
  if the last level is full).
* Yay!  It's still nearly complete.
* But it doesn't satisfy the heap property.
* If the thing we just inserted is larger than the parent, 
    * swap with the parent
    * and recurse up the tree
* Problem: How do we get the parent?  Magic.

Removing elements from heaps
----------------------------

* The largest element is at the top
* Grab it (and be ready to return it)
* Grab the last thing on the last level and put it at the top
* The tree is now nearly complete
* Swap with larger child
* And recurse

Outstanding problems that we've relied on magic to resolve
----------------------------------------------------------

* How do you get the parent?  (Parent pointer?)
* How do you get the last element on the last level?
* Where do you insert the next element before swapping up?
* The amazing TN tree representation: Put it into an array in breadth-first,
  left-to-right order, top-down order
* If we also store size, the number of elements in the tree
    * The next element goes in position size++
    * The last element is in position size-1
    * The left child of p is at position 2p + 1
    * The right child of p is at position 2p + 2
    * The parent is (p minus 1 or 2)/2
        * In C, this should 'floor it', and we'll be ok
    * Can you tell if a node at position p is a left child or right child?
        * Left child is odd
        * Right child is even

Heap sort
---------

* We have an array
* We want to sort it
* Turn it into a heap

Here's the code:

    // Turn the array into a heap
    for (int i = 1; i < values.length; i++) {
       swapUp(i);
    } // for
    // Grab the largest element out of the heap and put them at
    // the end.
    for (int pos = values.length - 1; pos > 0; pos--) {
       swap(pos, 0);
       swapDown(0);
    } // for

Analysis:

* Adding an element is log_2(n)
* Removing an element is log_2(n)
* Adding all of the elements is O(nlogn)
* Moving all the elements into the sorted position is O(nlogn)

Yay!  Another O(nlogn) algorithm

* Quicksort is *expected* O(nlogn), can be O(n^2)
* Merge sort is O(nlogn) but requires extra space
* Heap sort is O(nlogn) and needs almost no extra memory
