CSC207.01 2013F, Class 52: Dynamic Programming
==============================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on the Homework.
* Fibonacci.
* Generalizing the Idea.
* The Stamps Problem.
* Edit Distance in Strings.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* Please behave during pre/post-Waltz parties.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * Any self-care week activity.
    * CS Table Today: Beyond Efficiency.
    * Swim meet Friday and Saturday.
    * Dance Ensemble, lots of times this weekend. (Sold out!  But some
      people take tickets that they don't intend to use.)
    * One acts, Saturday night and Sunday afternoon

### Questions on the Homework

Fibonacci
---------

The Fibonacci function: 

* f(0) = 1
* f(1) = 1
* f(n) = f(n-1) + f(n-2)

Code?

    public static int fib(int n) {
        if ((n == 0) || (n == 1)) {
            return 1;
        } else {
            return fib(n-1) + fib(n-2);
        } // else
    } // fib(int)

What are the problems with this solution?

* Might waste space, but we're not sure why.
* Not tail recursive, but we don't know how to make it tail recursive.
  (Concerns about overflowing the stack.)
* No error checking.  If we give this a number less than zero, it runs for a
  *long* time.
* Looks inefficient as stated.  Maybe we're doing double-ish the work.
* Fibonacci grows quickly.  Maybe we should use BigInteger.

How inefficient?

    $ java Fib 5
    fib(5) = 8
       took 15 calls.
    $ java Fib 8
    fib(8) = 34
       took 67 calls.
    $ java Fib 9
    fib(9) = 55
       took 109 calls.
    $ java Fib 20
    fib(20) = 10946
       took 21891 calls.

Problem: Lots of repeated work

    fib(16) = fib(15) + fib(14)
            = fib(14) + fib(13) + fib(14)
            = fib(13) + fib(12) + fib(13) + fib(14)

Solution 1: Change the formula

    fib(n) = 2*fib(n-2) + fib(n-3)
    fib(16) = 2*fib(14) + fib(13)
            = 2*(2*fib(12) + fib(11)) + fib(13)
            = 2*(2*fib(12) + fib(11)) + 2*fib(11) + fib(10)

Whoops!  Still likely to be slow.

Solution 2: Remember our old results

    // FIB[n] is -1 if we haven't computed it yet, and something else if we
    // have computed it.
    private static int[] FIB[?]= { 1, 1, -1, -1, -1 .... }
    public static int fib(int n) {
        if (FIB[n] != -1) {
           return FIB[n];
        } else
           FIB[n] = fib(n-1) + fib(n-2);
           return FIB[n];
        }
    } // fib(int)

Hand waving argument: "This is now O(n)"

Solution 3: Why do we like tail recursion?  Because we avoid the stack.  So,
let's do it by hand: Write it iteratively from left to right.

    public static int fib(int n) {
        int values[] = new int[n+1];
        values[0] = 1;
        values[1] = 1;
        for (i = 2; i <= n; i++) {
           values[i] = values[i-1] + values[i-2];
        }
        return values[n];
    } // fib(n)

Solution 4: Drop the array

    public static int fib(int n) {
        int prev = 1;
        int current = 1;
        int next;
        for (i = 2; i <= n; i++) {
            next = prev+current;
            prev = current;
            current = next;
        }
        return current;
    } // fib(n)

Generalizing the Idea
---------------------

* Caching values in a table is really useful.
* The first time you compute a value, do the work.
* The next time, you can look it up.
* And maybe creating the table can be down bottom-up instead of top-down

The Stamps Problem
------------------

* Given multiple values of stamps/currencies (e.g., 2, 7, 11, 23), find the 
  smallest number of stamps/coins for a particular cost

Code

     public static int smallest(n) {  
        if (n == 0)
            return 0;
        else {
            return 1 + "the min of smallest[n-value], for all values"
        }

A better solution:

* Build a table of the minimum number of stamps to make any value
* Fill in the table from left to right using the technique above

Edit Distance in Strings
------------------------

* Problem: Two strings (source, target): What's the fewest number of insertions/deletions I need to transform source into target
* Hypothetically useful for biologists: Turn one DNA sequence into another.
* Example: acccgtgcca vs cacccgtgcac
* One transformation
    * Start with acccgtgcca
    * Delete the first letter: cccgtgcca
    * Put an a after the first letter: caccgtgcca
    * Put a c after the fourth letter: cacccgtgcca
    * ...
* Alternate transformation
    * Start with acccgtgcca
    * Put a c at the front cacccgtgcca
* Key idea: Make a table, but a more complicated table
* Column labels: Characters in the source string
* Row labels: Characters in the target string
* Cell: Cost of transforming the source substring to the target substring

Terminology
-----------

* Caching/memoizing + Smallest-to-largest = Dynamic Programming
