CSC207.01 2013F, Class 53: Using Java from the Command Line
===========================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions/comments on the homework.
* A brief overview.
* Ant.
* Lab.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* Candy Canes and Clementines!
* Study break 8-10 tonight,  Smoothies!  (May run out early.)
* Who has an OCS recommendation that I need to fill out?
    * EW, DG, JGS, ...
* I hope to distribute most of the exam tomorrow.  (I'll probably leave
  the code until HW11 is turned in.)
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * CS Extra: Multiple Models of Mediascripting
    * CS Table Friday: TBD

### Questions/Comments on the Homework

Sam's short comments

* You are effectively building a tree.
* If you're building a tree-like structure, do you want to use iteration
  or recursion?
* Basic operation: Look at the next character
    * Open brace: It's an object, parse the object
    * Open square bracket: It's a list
    * Double quotation mark: It's a string (don't have to worry about \u, but do
      have to worry about \" and \\)
    * Digit: It's a number
    * Etc.

Should we split at quotation marks or simply step through the characters?

> You should step through the characters.  Quotation marks can have too many
meanings.

When is a digit going to happen?

> {"id":23}

A brief overview
----------------

* Goal: Escape from Eclipse
* Why?
    * May be more efficient with other editors.
    * Want less startup time.
    * Want to know what's going on "behind the scenes"
* `javac` - Compile a .java file
* `java` - Run a compiled .java file
* `CLASSPATH` - Environment variable that tells where to look for other compiled
  Java files.
    * In most Unix/Linux variants, there are user-specific variables that let
      you configure the system (e.g., where to look for programs, where to look
      for Java stuff, what editor to use by default, ...)
    * In bash, we set them with $ export VARIABLE=value; view with 
      $ printenv VARIABLE
* `jar` - Join lots of compiled Java files into a single "package"
* `javadoc` - Generate documentation
* `junit` - Run unit tests

Ant
---

* A typical project has lots of things to do - compile, join into an application,
  test, run a program, clean up temporary files, etc.
* In C, we write Makefiles.
* The folks at Apache built Ant as a Java-oriented alternative to Make.

Lab
---

