CSC207.01 2013F, Class 54: Patterns of Object and Algorithm Design
==================================================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions on Homework 11.
    * Notes on the Final
* Algorithm design.
* Object design.
* Code design.
* ADT design.
* Data structure design.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* Our model for most sections of today's class will be "talk for a few
  minutes as a small group, then share your answers with the class".
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * CS Extra: Multiple Models of Mediascripting
    * CS Table Friday: Timing code.

### Questions on HW 11

_How should we do unit tests or experiments?_

> Build a few simple objects and see if they have the correct fields.

    JSONObject obj = JSONParser.parse("{\"name\":\"wheelie\"}");
    assertEquals("wheelie", obj.get("name"));

_Should we deal with spaces, tabs, newlines, etc?_

> It would be nice.  But it should be easy.  Before you check a character,
use

    while ((i < str.length() && (Character.isWhitespace(ch = str.charAt(i))))
        i++;

> Or you could be smarter than me and delete all of the whitespace in the string.

### The Final

* Available now in draft form.
* Some code available now.  Remaining code available tomorrow.
* Time for questions rest of the week.

Algorithm design
----------------

Given an interesting problem, how do you get started?

Examples

* Reverse a linked list in place
* Find the median value in an unsorted array

Techniques

* Google / StackOverflow [assume that they fail you]
* Think about the problem in more depth:
    * What are the starting data? (preconditions)
    * What should the ending data look like? (postconditions)
    * Write lots of examples (tests) of input and output
* Think about similar problems we've done before
* Draw pictures
* If writing loops, think about invariants (often pictoral)
* Look up the portion of the class in which you studied the problem
* Work through it by hand and then generalize
* Write crappy code and hack at it until it works or until you understand

What Sam often does

* Try to solve it "by hand" to gain some insight
* Look for similar problems I've solved before
* Draw pictures
* Think about approaches that have worked in the past
    * Divide and conquer
    * Dynamic programming (if I solve a bunch of smaller problems, does that
      help?)
    * Greed - Given a series of choices, make the one that seems most valuable
Object design
-------------

Code design
-----------

