CSC207.01 2013F, Class 55: Course Evaluation
============================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions.
* The subject matter(s) of the course.
* Evaluations.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* [The final](../assignments/final.html) is now available.
    * I may add additional experiments.
    * Please make each folder a separate Eclipse project.
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * CS Extra: Multiple Models of Mediascripting
    * CS Table Friday: The Reactive Manifesto
    * G Tones Saturday at 4pm

### Questions on the Final

* Will you be around for questions?  Yes.

The subject matter(s) of the course
-----------------------------------

CSC 207, like most classes, has multiple broad subject matters.

I'll introduce each category and give a few examples.  You discuss in 
small groups and then share.

* The Java Programming Language
    * Classes
    * Interfaces
    * Objects
    * Control structures: if, while, switch, for-each
    * Standard data types: 
    * Standard Java classes
        * java.util.Iterator
        * java.util.ArrayList
    * ...
* Object-Oriented Programming
    * The three core ideas: 
        * Encapsulation
        * Inheritance
        * Polymorphism
    * Important patterns: 
        * Singleton
        * Adapter
        * ...
    * ...
* Algorithms
    * "The literature" - Classic algorithms
        * Quicksort
        * Heapsort
        * Binary search
        * Dutch national flag
        * ...
    * Techniques
        * Primarily: Divide and conquer
    * Analysis
        * Asymptotic (big O)
        * Correctness/Invariants
    * ...
* Abstract Data Types
    * "The literature" - Classic data types
        * Vector-like structures
        * List-like structures
        * Queues, Stacks, Priority Queues
        * Dictionaries
        * Trees
        * ...
    * A design approach
    * ...
* Data Structures
    * "The literature" - Classic data structures
        * Binary search trees
        * Heaps
        * Hash tables
        * Linked, doubly linked lists, circularly linked lists
        * ...
    * Common implementation technqiues
    * A design approach
    * ...
* Software Design
    * Testing and experimentation
    * Modularity and reuse
    * Refactor
    * Standards
    * Debugging / using a debugger / that debuggers exist
    * ...
* Random practical skills
    * Really basic use of git
    * How to hate Eclipse
     
* Broader Outcomes
    * Teamwork
    * Stress management (or lack thereof)
    * How to talk to authority figures
    * Support your colleagues
    * Academic honesty is a principle, not a form
    * ...
* Approaches to Life
    * Computers are sentient and malicious (well, Eclipse is)
    * Have fun with what you do
    * Care
    * Sometimes you will fail.  Roll with it.  (Evidence by watching Sam.)
    * If you communicate concern politely, you may see positive responses.
    * There's more to life/education than your coursework.  Take advantage
      of opportunities.
    * Snark.

Evaluations
-----------

* You'll fill out paper copies today.
* We'll debrief informally on Friday.
* I need a volunteer to take them to the science division office.
