CSC207.01 2013F, Class 56: Review for Final
===========================================

_Overview_

* Preliminaries.
    * Admin.
    * Questions.
* Some questions on the course.
* Some things you didn't learn.
* Some final thoughts.

Preliminaries
-------------

### Admin

* Cinnamon roles!
* Upcoming extra credit opportunities:
    * CS Table Friday: The Reactive Manifesto
    * G Tones Saturday at 4
* Sam will try to get you tentative grade info by Tuesday a.m.

### Questions on the Exam

_What should we do with the `parseArray` code on Q4?

> Delete it?

_What if we want to use it?_

> Fine.  But do so at your own risk.

Send email!

Some questions on the course
----------------------------

What's something that went well?

* Snarky banter.
* Explain well one-on-one
* Adapt when things are unreasonable
* Available via email

Large scale things that went wrong

* Not enough labs
    * Solution: Winter break spent writing the remaining labs/readings
    * Solution: Daily writeups
* Grading (not enough)
    * Solution: ML and AK
* No followup on Android
    * Solution: More labs, more resources
    * Or maybe not the right thing to do; Perhaps too much overhead
* Ushahidi go boom
    * Solution: Rewriting code over break

Other things that I can improve

* Make the location of things clearer.  
* Add a better search function.
* Make sure the links in the schedule work
* More individual assignments other than exams
    * Maybe alternate weeks group/individual
* Less work?
* Make the homework less time consuming
    * Ask the mentor and the prof for more help
* Answer more email at 10:30 pm
* On labs ... more start from scratch
    * Or perhaps on homework
    * Or perhaps more "Design in small group report to large group"
* Class mentor needs to indicate that even though Sam will insult you
  ruthlessly, he'll probably also give you helpful comments
    * Or use a plant to help show this
* More time early on on Java syntax would be helpful, including differences 
  from C.
* Make this a five credit, five day per week class?
* Be more efficient with the time we have.
    * Leave the events on the whiteboard, but don't discuss?
* More time in thinking as an object-oriented programmer
    * Or at least an assignment or two
* More of the traditional reading + lab approach
* Clear indication of what is where in the book
    * And find good Web resources as an alternative [student assignment]
* Be a little nicer
* Test the assignments
* Usahidi and Android
    * Ushahidi is interseting
    * Android is a really cool concept, but may be too much for 207
        * May be too much for 207

Anything else you want me to know about your experience in the course

Some things left uncovered
--------------------------

### Java

### OOP

### Other

Some final thoughts
-------------------

